# 2015/04/14

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 12:09

The CPU data and register option subinterfaces can essentially be extended off
a super interface since they will share many things.

## 12:32

CPUData and CPURegister are also turning very alike each other, so change that
up also.

## 13:41

And the isRequired() in the interface works correctly as it should.

## 18:58

Ok, now I have register information placed at least some basic information of
which I have now. I believe for the Allocator and the choice of native
registers it chooses will be automatic.

## 19:19

The cool thing about PowerPC is that it has 64-bit floating point registers
even on 32-bit systems.

## 21:25

Need to include the built package information name and version fields in the
JAR file when they are built.

## 21:36

Some minor changes, although uses slighly some more memory will also allow me
to sort all of the JAR entries when they are added. Cosmetic but it could be
useful in the future.

## 22:21

For some reason the Manifest gets wiped when placed, so I am not too sure on
the usage of Manifest itself. However with Manifest I can change run-package
to use that insted of opening and decoding the stuff myself, if desired.

## 22:31

Cannot seem to figure out why the Manifest.write() does not work.

## 22:43

`Attributes.Name.MANIFEST_VERSION` needed to be set.

