# 2015/06/22

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 07:47

Awake, hopefully some coding can get done.

## 09:00

For internal structures I suppose I should use class types and such, so to
speak.

## 09:30

However, I am not too sure how I should declare sub structure types in Java
code. My code is all auto-matically generated for the most part anyway so
there is no real difference in things much.

## 10:21

It would be handy if hairball were to generate Java doc for packages, and
perhaps put the class data in ZIP files and such. That would increase build
times however. I should perhaps wait on that until I have some kind of help
system and such.

## 12:55

I currently have partial code and so far I really like it. Writing to the
structures is type safe, which is great.

## 13:14

Now to do busy busy real life stuff, hopefully when I return I can come back
to writing this massive KBF code stuff.

## 15:33

Short break, cannot sleep so I shall code instead.

## 20:07

The struct processor code printing is getting a bit ugly. The stuff needs to
be split off and made nicer to handle the structure, mutable, and immutable
forms along with the C header stuff.

## 20:50

I can also probably use the annotation processor to generate an assembler
which is argument/type safe from instructions.

