# 2015/06/24

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 07:42

It is meta time.

## 08:28

Thought about a fancy compiling class loader, but it would probably be much
simpler to just compile everything at once and then execute the meta
generation code in a self contained class loader.

## 09:29

Now my generator is called, I just need an interface which can create files to
compile and such.

## 10:05

Took about 3 hours to write but I believe it will work out. Well my code fails
to compile but that is due to bad interface errors. Looking at the log output
now. And the files are generated since their deletions are printed. So now I
have meta generation of code in the same package. I can use this system
instead of the annotation processor for when mpa-posix comes along.

## 10:23

Yay, now my code compiles although I still have some more work to do with
regards to handling things and such. Well almost compiles, just need to fixup
some packages to use the new system rather than the old.

## 11:39

If I put the main scrolling area into the split directly rather than a sub
panel, I get it stretched how I want it.

## 15:27

This tile picture I drew reminds me of The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening.

## 20:07

Will need to implement the mutable KBF Toc and such.

