# 2014/11/21

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:45

Before I continue on to the solar stuff I have been writing I am going to make
it so I can have the build stuff entirely in Java for the kernel at least
similar to what I had before for all those packages (hairball). So hairball
shall return and it shall just build the kernel and such. Going to code the
kernel in a way where you can just run hairball on the JAR file of everything
on its own JAR file (java -cp rt.jar net.multiphasicapps.k8.hb.Main rt.jar)
and a kernel gets spit out to match the system you desire to target. Then that
build code can leverage the filesystem code via the FileSystemProvider in the
fs package and subpackages, so the build system could write out a k8fs without
requiring the host to even support it. I could have a special writer class
that can make the hybrid ISO and HFS bootable CD-ROM so that the OS can boot
on anything. Also, this moving around stuff will make it easier to invoke the
build system from my eventual Jenkins setup so it will be much easier on
everything. The hairball system could also invoke existing emulators such as
QEMU or GXEmul for example (if they exist) and run test suites on the stuff,
and that could be done on Jenkins also.

## 01:07

These will be the Builder and Tester classes for making and testing things,
that way no matter which OS is run (including my own) there is only a single
way to actually do the things.

## 23:01

Suppose today is a day I take a major break, a day off. Should clear the mind.

