# 2020/08/02

## 13:26

I have ideas for Squirrel Quarrel, for the given points:

 * Campaign with at least 9 missions.
 * There will be 4 players (4 color blind friendly colors).
 * There will be fog of war.
 * There will be custom maps.
   * Random map selection only via seed.
 * Game Play
   * Will involve scouts and acorn/leaves collecting.
   * Limited number of squirrels in play: 8 squirrels.
   * Acorns are used to birth new squirrels.
   * Leaves are used to build nests and upgrade areas.
   * All squirrel units are the same.
     * Squirrels can carry acorns/leaves/sticks and return to base.
     * The more the squirrel carries the less damage they do.
     * They can be equipped with weapons to increase damage taken.
     * They can be equipped with armor to decrease damage received.
     * Weapons and armor may break and have limited durability.
   * Simple command set:
     * Attack/move/build/gather/drop in direction.
   * The maps will be generally small.
   * There will be: grass, dirt, leaves, acorns, sticks, trees, and water.
 * Multiplayer play
   * Controller choices
     * On Device
     * Remote Communication (Listen as Host)
     * Remote Communication (Connect as Host)
     * Code Exchange (Host)
     * Computer (A...-Z...)
       * Letters from A-Z if good word is available, different AIs for each.
       * Acorn, Curious, Gray, Ratufa, Squeak, etc.
   * Joining multiplayer is done with:
     * Remote Communication (Listen as Joiner)
     * Remote Communication (Connect as Joiner)
     * Code Exchange (Joiner)
   * Exchange Codes will be `0` through `9` with `*` and `#`
     * Allows two or more players to play with two devices and no connection.
     * There will be a "give code and wait for code" screen which is used to
       give the player the other code and also receive their code too.
     * Will be huffman compressed to make them shorter and conserve space.
     * Check code will be at the end.
     * Codes will be in a form of `1234*56#1234*56#*7890##` shorter
       sequence groups to make division easier. The star symbol will be
       for extra data and a check, is just to split it up. There will be
       a check digit at the very end to ensure the command was entered
       property.
   * Communication will be any GCF read/write two-way stream.
     * Generally TCP, Serial, or Modem.
