# 2015/11/18

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 11:10

I believe I am going to go for an ending index which contains the tables and
such as that may be a bit easier. Well, I am just going to do my split class
stuff to make read/write a bit easier and cleaner rather than have it all in
a single class.

## 12:07

This new code is much cleaner than before.

## 16:06

The PowerPC int instruction does not work because the value it writes is
wrapped as a specific value. I need a set of raw data value instructions.

## 16:23

Storing the instruction used, I can save by not having a decode operation when
handling unknown. I was doing it before but changed to the disassembler, now
I revert this.

## 16:47

Oddly for the byte buffer instead of using disassembler, I get the
exception:

	[SEVERE] Threw exception during recompile of "<init>" (()V):
	"java.lang.IllegalStateException: Missed position 28, currently at 20 with
	a limit of 24.".

And I am not to sure why it occurs.

## 16:49

Actually, reading the docs the position is limited to the limit, so the old
limit causes a failure when setting a new one, so just set the new limit first
before setting the position.

## 20:19

A comment could be handy in the KBF, such as when it was generated.

