# 2015/11/22

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 13:27

Appears the SPIR-V 1.0 specification was released not too long ago. When I do
eventually get to 3D graphics, it is just going to be SPIR-V and Vulkan at the
core with an initial software renderer. Everything else such as OpenGL or
Java3D can be based on that core so that there is a common OpenGL code set
which does not have to be rewritten every single time for new hardware.

## 18:51

Having the stuff merged as this is now will most likely reduce the work needed
in the future to add read support for KBFs since most of it will be done at
least in the raw format.

## 19:52

I had this idea of using a 64-bit pre-link table but that is not really needed
as the KBF is essentially a 32-bit format. The values are only valid the KBF
is loaded at a base of zero and the pre-link table is loaded at a very large
address. Making it 32-bit would simplify things a bit. However for the case of
pre-link referenced datas that would be complicated. I suppose as a solution to
that, those values will instead be referenced by cells which is a multiple of
the pointer index as required. This way the pre-link references while in the
KBF are 32-bit can be loaded into 64-bit form without requiring magical stuff
to happen.

