# 2015/11/23

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 18:25

I can keep my specific writing code, just need to refactor it a bit.

## 18:32

FileChannel being a bit loose with regards of growing the file without having
an explicit size or truncation makes it easy. FileChannel can be used as say
an external block device quite easily. As for not commiting much today I had
to do much real life stuff.

## 18:40

I also need a way to return the position of a given allocation which is
optional. It can just go into an array of long.

## 18:52

Potential cache issues. The PrimaryKBF can cache the constant pool which does
not change, however the writable version may. However if the WPKBF is used
and since calls are virtual then the easy-cacheable read-only one is not
a big problem because then just the writable one can be used, which is a bit
separated. So I suppose I will need some kind of interface for them that shares
the specific stuff. The base read-only one will provide a class of that
interface while the writable one will give the actual writable one. This
would at least allow the writable one to be more dynamic for modifiable KBFs
while having the read-only easy-cache speed for ones which are not modified
(such as ones loaded into memory).

## 20:41

I say that this new way of writing things is so much better than it was before.
There is much better structure now.

