# 2015/02/03

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 01:40

Going to try to compile fossil with my C library as I develop it so that when
it comes time to running my OS native in Java, I can use the built fossil as a
bootstrap while I reimplement it in Java. At least for implementing the stuff
required by miniz (shortcuting there) I will need to implement the following C
library functions assert, fclose, fflush, fopen, fread, free, freopen, fseeko,
ftello, fwrite, localtime, malloc, memcmp, memcpy, memset, mktime, realloc,
remove, stat, strlen, time, and utime.

## 03:12

OK, so what would be the best way to describe execution of code as a stream so
that it is simple and includes all of the annotations on local variables and
such. Perhaps a single logical operation which may be used multiple times for
a single instruction at an address. That would be the best I can think of.

## 07:00

This dynamic recompiler stuff so far looks like it will be good compared to
the code I previously had, appears to be much cleaner too.

## 07:09

Right now it cannot find the dynamic recompiler for powerpc32 so either the
service listing is incorrect or it is using the wrong classloader since I load
the stuff dynamically when needed. And the class was the issue.

## 08:27

At least merge conflicts are very visible.

` <<<<<<< BEGIN MERGE CONFLICT: local copy shown first <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<  
======= COMMON ANCESTOR content follows ============================  
======= MERGED IN content follows ==================================  
>>>>>>> END MERGE CONFLICT >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> >>>  
`

## 08:31

I do wonder though if the conflict in this file has been solved. It would seem
that fossil checks the contents of the file for that special conflict line
above so I had to HTML entity it away!

