# 2015/02/28

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:22

This blog creation script should be handy as before I manually copied and
added for each new day.

## 00:23

I will need to figure out register allocation and such during the generation
of native from my compiled form.

## 01:39

I need some way to specify bit sets, as in values such as 1..32. However there
are tons of conversions to do such a thing, and I would rather much want a
type safe way of doing so. I suppose instead I should do stuff such as
BitNumber and BitLength, where they contain 64 enumeration values. Then the
length would and initial position would be kept minimal and a bit safe.

## 04:46

My filesystem and GUI based user interfaces will need support for files that
are multiple MIME types. That is say a file that is both an AU sound file and
a ZIP file. When launched the user would be asked which program they want to
use as it is many things, although in some cases (such as HTMLs and text) it
might not be desired. Perhaps it can be done in a confidence like way.

## 18:26

Forgot about floating point values. I will also need to send the option map to
the assemblers and the allocator so they can use them (for say soft float).

