# Lex The SquirrelJME Mascot

 * _Lex_ was illustrated by...
   * Kat Adam-MacEwen
   * Kat@CMYKat Designs & Illustrations <http://www.cmykat-designs.com/>

An anthropromprohic albino (white) male squirrel (a small woodland rodent-like
creature with sharp claws and a long fuzzy tail, preferred diet is acorns)
with red irises and dark pupils, medium length white hair from the top of the
snout to the back of the neck with a slight curve, triangular ears on the top
of the head with the inner ear portion colored light pink, and two front buck
teeth with curved outer edges. The remainder of the
mascot wears a short sleeve (halfway between the shoulder and the elbow) green
tunic held in place by a brown belt with the dangling flap in the direction of
the left hand, the buckle being gold plated. A brown under shirt is worn. The
bottom of the tunic is flat and extends past the tail but above the knees. A
white tail extends from the back of the mascot which goes straight up and has a
slight curve at the end, it reaches to the start of the neckline before curving
off away from the body. The hands are relaxed with dark claws visible, the feet
also have claws. No pants or shoes are worn. The coloring of the mascot
consists of no gradients and only contains two levels of shading (a light and a
dark color). 

For licensing information, see the license used for SquirrelJME.

# High Resolution Usage

For display purposes and on high resolution systems, the mascot as it currently
is can be used.

# Low Resolution Usage

For extremely low resolutions below 128x128, the mascot is manually drawn using
the high resolution version as a base.

