# 2016/02/03

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 09:27

The MIPS Creator CI40 board is looking pretty cool, hopefully by the time I
get it I will have an actual booting kernel that runs somewhat. I hope so.
There have been many refactors as I slowly inch forward. However even after
these refactors the code looks much much nicer.

## 20:04

Ok, so I am going to go for a number of set bits hash table for the image maps.

## 20:11

Actually no that cannot work because I have no idea which bits are going to
be set for an instruction.

## 20:35

Ok so the instruction information manifests should be completely decoded now
for the most part. I just have to continue on with the decoding of operations
before I can process them. Then once they are decoded I have to setup a basic
assembler with `ProgramEditor` and then fix POIT again so it compiles and
potentially runs.

## 21:01

POIT is deprecated though, but I could at least use it as a reference for a
bit. I believe after this new `ProgramEditor` bit I am rather done with some
refactors and can continue code generation and such. I hope so, so I can
hopefully get a native kernel running by the end of the month.

## 23:45

Ok so instructions are guessed now, what I need to do tomorrow is to setup the
field information in `ProgramInstruction` so it can be properly handled and
the actual instruction fields can be used.

