# 2016/02/06

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 14:24

I really have to clean my room.

## 19:22

Need to fix issues where hairball is used completely relative. And there is
also another trace that will need some fixing so that hairball start time is
faster.

	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.__ContentViewer__.getTime(
		__ContentViewer__.java:162)
	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.PackageStatus.getSourceTime(
		PackageStatus.java:389)
	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.PackageStatus.getContents(
		PackageStatus.java:263)
	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.PackageInfo.__getJson(PackageInfo.java:211)
	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.PackageInfo.entrySet(PackageInfo.java:113)
	at java.util.AbstractMap.get(AbstractMap.java:176)
	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.PackageList.<init>(PackageList.java:146)
	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.Main.obtainPackageList(Main.java:265)
	at net.multiphasicapps.hairball.Main.main(Main.java:132)

Potentially anyway.

## 19:30

Odd, a file starting with `.goutputstream` landed itself in hairball then went
away.

## 19:34

On the XServe G5, compilation seems to be speedy using the ppc64 OpenJDK 8
although I am not too sure if it is hotspot accelerated or just fast itself.
It takes 2 minutes to run. The only other comparison I have is Zero since it
appears JamVM is not available.

## 19:40

1 minute and 55 seconds for the server VM.

## 19:44

The latest JDK just runs out of memory immedietly so there is no way to really
test it when running on the standard 32-bit PowerPC.

