# 2016/02/21

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 10:39

Actually cleaned part of my room today.

## 10:43

Ok, so would the best thing to do would be a kind of updated interface? I
suppose what I should do is make the editors thread safe and such, that will
make things easier to use and such.

## 10:58

At least with it being thread safe I can be sure of values which are stale in
case a single thread is used for multiple instructions.

## 11:08

Ok, so very complex this alignment potential for fields. I suppose I go through
all fields, if there is no alignment then the total bits used and the current
bit position is taken. Then if a field has an alignment, it will get a bonus
to its position after the instruction.

## 11:13

I also have to handle cases where fields are aliased over each other (such as
in PowerPC, for the MSR I have the total bit set and the high/low for the same
location). Otherwise for certain instructions things will just run off. However
this is easier for me because all fields which I define are in the order of
their base shift.

## 11:41

Ok so this is rather complex when it comes to this code. Essentially what can
happen is that fields can be rather jumpy. However I suppose I should only
worry about minimal fields. I can also just skip aligned instructions for now
and then add it later when required.

