# 2015/09/29

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:17

This expanded bootstrap system feels much nicer than before. No messy massive
reflective stuff so far.

## 00:19

Appears that Throwables have no causes back in 1.2, now that is something.

## 00:25

And now I have at least an exception on Java 2.

    
    
    VE: 1.2
    VM: Classic VM (1.2.2)
    RT: Sun Microsystems Inc. (1.2.2)
    OS: Linux (2.4.27-3-386, i386)
    RD: .
    JA: /usr/jdk1.2.2/bin/java
    JC: /usr/jdk1.2.2/bin/javac
    SH: unix
    

This being a Debian sarge system, which is quite dated (2005).

## 00:29

Works in GCJ (after not extending 234), despite a bunch of warnings about
missing generics. GCJ gives the following:

    
    
    VE: 1.5
    VM: GNU libgcj (4.7.2)
    RT: Free Software Foundation, Inc. (1.5.0)
    OS: Linux (3.14.52.15263.1, ppc)
    RD: /home/steven/k8
    JA: gij
    JC: gcj-wrapper
    SH: unix
    

## 10:41

Well, at least with this three stage setup I can have a clean third stage
which is not messily written with reflection just to compile hairball.

## 10:48

Now that the second stage is complete, onto the third which should end up
being much cleaner than the previous launcher. I will have to test these in
Wine/ReactOS however.

## 18:32

Hairball has been missing Main-Class this whole time.

## 18:39

So now it appears that my three stage bootstrap is finished. I just need to
test it on Windows and such now due to the changes I have made.

## 23:38

Testing it in Wine right now for NT targets. Appears that it works without
requiring any changes by me. The only remaining thing to check is if the BAT
file works (for Windows 9x targets).

## 23:46

Well the batch file works in WINE.

