# 2016/05/09

## 09:37

Actually for the exception handler generated code, I can place it anywhere
which would remove a check at the start of a method. If I follow the controlled
exception route (where there are no asynchronous exceptions, note that I do
not have `Thread.stop` which is a good thing here). If I place it at the end
of the method then I would not need a check at the start. However, for stuff
such as array access where bounds checks need to be performed, if there is
an exception then it will have to be thrown by the generated code.

## 09:46

However, for asynchronous exceptions if one does occur then it will just appear
in the current method being called. If it propogates upwards then how
exceptions are normally handled would be used instead.

## 16:56

To locate jump targets, I can have jump indexes which are associated with a
program.

## 17:04

For programs I will need a kind of index so a class which can provide indices
as required.

## 17:27

For simplicity and some speed, I do not need to strictly follow SSA. The
compiler will just perform basic cached optimizations.

## 17:44

I know how I can implement branching without requiring knowing the exact IDs
of future basic blocks.

## 17:46

This also means I would not need an index factory which would be a bit ugly.
Jumps can only be made to the start of basic blocks anyway.

## 18:03

I just need to figure out the potential jump targets for all operations then
setup jump targets for all of them. Then once that is done, I can have a
multiple of lists which define the operations to be placed within basic blocks.
Then at program generation the lists can be turned into basic blocks and then
sent to the program as required.

## 18:13

Also some operations such as getting and setting of fields would be terminal
operations potentially (provided they are not `final` or have a known value).

## 18:19

So the first thing to do then would be to go through all operations and
determine the jump targets that the operations jump to then exception handlers.
The mapping of logical instructions to block builders will be setup. The block
handlers can also have the register states such as which ones are active and
which ones are temporary for example.

