# 2016/05/12

## 08:12

The stack pushing and popping would likely be better if it were more
intelligent rather than just the types. So pops would be just the type while
pushes would be the given _n_-th pop or a new value.

## 08:15

Also the state of the stack and operations should be known also, so there must
be no narrow or wide alias types. This would make parsing much easier for
example.

## 08:18

The interpreter could actually first have a duality. For example I can have a
pure interpreter which is standalone so to speak, and then have the compiled
program execution. This way I can easily test if the byte code is being
interpreted properly before the compilation route is taken. It would have to
be pluggable in that any route can be chosen. Although the pure interpreter
would be a bit slow it would help much in debugging.

## 08:34

Although the pure interpreter would be slow, hopefully this new design will
make it slightly faster. Then once the pure interpreter works fully I can then
design a native compiler that works with it.

## 08:49

Actually for system properties I need something similar to the useful
`squirreljme.error`.

## 09:26

It would be best if the byte code representation was given the lookup
interface. This way the verification that the byte code is actually correct
only has to exist in the byte code representation and not in the interpreter
or the compiler. Duplicating the verification could end up being rather
dangerous.

## 09:46

Also since the work would be done in the byte code representation, then that
means the interpreter would be much simpler because it does not have to
perform that many checks.

## 10:56

What I need in the operation is a way to cleanly load all of the required
information without making it very ugly. The constructor for operations is
going to be gigantic.

## 13:31

Something which I need would be to have is the stack map table and such loaded
in so the byte code can be verified correctly.

## 14:35

Will need a singleton so that the first operation always has an implicit
verification state which matches the flags and input arguments.

## 15:02

The `UnmodifiableList` class for the non-random access list should implement
the list iterator since it is possible for `AbstractList` to not actually
be `RandomAccess`. As such depending on the `ListIterator` implementation it
is quite likely that for stuff such as `LinkedList` that it would just iterate
through the entire list and the further away the `ListIterator` is the more
operations are performed, so it would basically be **O(n^2)** which is
quite bad.

## 16:48

Also with the lookup, the byte code initializer can verify the access
permissions of the target class. This would then mean that the interpreter
would never have to check the access requirements during execution which
would result in slightly faster interpretation. It is illegal for the byte
code to reference classes in this way also however. So this would result in
an easier to implement compiler and interpreter since the operations and such
would already be checked.

