# 2016/05/13

## 07:24

Looks like I forgot to commit build instructions.

## 07:31

I should likely rename the build system stuff from `hairball` to something
more noticable.

## 08:50

Actually with this operation code, I can easily change operations so that they
become other operations. For example if a get is made of a field which is
final and has an assigned value, it can just be turned into a sipush or a `LDC`
instead of a field read. However for fields, the instances would need to be
popped also, so they cannot cleanly be aliased. However for static fields this
is always the case. Constant values are always constant. I suppose for
instance field reads which are constant like this, I can have it so a null
check is performed, then the value is placed onto the stack accordingly. This
would require new instructions to be defined however which are not in normally
valid programs. However, since my instructions are of any range, I can instead
just use really high impossible values for the operations since these
operations would have no representation that is possible. Also, I can do the
same for `LDC` operations so they are just a constant value push for the
most part. If I can remove the need for the byte code to require the compiler
and interpreter to access the constant pool, that would be a bonus.

## 09:00

I can also replace other instructions also. The byte code program has access
to the lookup and everything is statically determined. However, some
instructions can operate on unknown objects such as `instanceof`. However,
the compiler could detect if an object would be an instance in specific cases
and then just push a boolean to the stack. So when a `NRProgram` is executed
there would never be an `instanceof` check on known objects of a given class
type. Since everything is statically determined, optimizations are easier to
make. When it comes to run-time JIT and cache however, I would likely compile
the entire program first and then link it in as an addition to the current JVM.
Although this would be a slow initial start, everything is compiled at the same
time which means whole program optimization is possible. Then that compilation
is cached so that recompilation does not have to occur again. However if the
JAR or any of its dependencies change, then the entire program must be
recompiled again before it safely can be used. So basically the JIT can be seen
as a collection of JARs to native program. So for example on an N64, the
binary would be generated, then it would be loaded into memory. Any memory that
remains is available to programs to use. The whole program optimization could
also merge methods together so that for example my large bulk of TODO throwing
code essentially is merged into a single method which would save space.

## 09:36

What I can do instead of a large number of push operations for constants, I can
instead just change them to a single push of a value. Then in the interpreter
and compiler I can just check the value to be pushed and then handle it
accordingly. This would save conditions in the switch because a large number of
the operations are for the most part duplicates. This would also result in
much smaller code since the cases would be condensed. Then for stack shuffling
such as pop and push, I can instead have a generic stack shuffling operation
which pops all the desired values, then pushes them based on the input values.
All of the pop, push, and dup variants would then use this single shuffle
mechanism.

## 11:30

Also, the byte code representation could optimize exception handling for
example. For example `athrow` could be represented as clear the temporaries,
place the given item onto the stack by itself, and then jump to a given
address. Also thinking about it, the byte code representation could perform
simple operations also somewhat. So the byte code representation could be a
very early optimization sequence where easily optimized things can be placed.
So there could be some stack caching and NOPs in place of operations. However
at first I suppose I should perform the obvious operations. At least with a
potentially optimized `athrow` it might be done. However, I suppose to
maximize basic byte code optimization I also need to know the class types of
values on the stack and such, beyond of whether they are just objects or not.
Specifying the object types would be very useful in the optimizations I am
talking about. The stack and local states could also have that kind of
optimization where values are `null` and such. The types would also be handy
during generating `NRProgram`.

## 11:38

So to recap, give types and potential values for stack entries in the byte
code representation. This information could then be used as a kind of
optimization and cache. This would complicate the byte code representation
however. I would suppose for ease and simplicity that I should not do this and
keep the byte code mostly pure in representation. Optimizations such as this
could be laid out when `NRProgram` is to be generated. So if an optimization
is not very easily performed then it should not be performed. This would make
the initial loading of the byte code simple and closer to the specification.
Writing the more difficult optimizations would mean that they would have to be
tested. However the byte code representation would only really be used at the
early stage. When it comes to actual native execution, the compiler will never
be called because everything would already be compiled when a program is ran.

## 14:23

I will need to calculate jump sources.

## 15:18

Alternatively I can precalculate the stack data using basic simple types and
such then have the full information when needed. Alternatively, the stack state
of the input operation if it is not implicit is the one that precedes it.


