# 2016/05/14

## 08:52

Woke up a bit late this day.

## 10:41

Actually the byte code representation does not know the object a method is
being invoked on, so there cannot be a virtual lookup. This also means there
has to be another special instruction.

## 10:58

If I move some of the verification stuff to the lookup (checking that there
are no circular classes and extending/overridding of finals) then I can remove
that code from the interpreter. Also the compiler would benefit from it also
since it would not have to duplicate all of the access checks and such. I
could also virtually wrap all `NCIClass` and have mapped methods accordingly
as such.

## 13:30

I should keep some kind of statistics, since those would be useful in the
interpreter.

## 13:32

Also, I should be able to implement the `jdb` protocol potentially so I can
actively debug the running virtual machine instance. However, one major issue
with this is how can the interpreter communicate with the debugger when there
is no real communication channel which is possible? I would need to actually
create some socket code perhaps from MIDP 3 and then use that as a kind of
agent using TCP of sorts. Although, there is MEEP. Or GCF.

## 13:47

However the GCF classes do not even specify how lookup of things and such
are even performed. So I would suppose that I am given freedom to implement
the services how I would do it, via the service loader and such. The thing is
however, that I will need an actual launcher that wraps everything up while
performing the needed magic. That would be rather complex at this stage. So I
suppose that the interpreter I am writing cannot have an attached debugger.

## 13:52

I would suppose then, that I would have to define an actual launcher interface.
This would be similar to an application selector. All running threads that
either use real threads or are done via setjmp/longjmp style will be managed
by the launcher. The launcher would need access to the magical stuff. In
essence, the launcher is the kernel and is an important part of the virtual
machine. The launcher should be able to run as a single thread. Any calls in
the class library will just be forwarded to the launcher as a kind of user
space call. So stuff such as permission checking will just cross calls and
such. If I were to design the launcher in a way along with the magical
interfaces where instead of writing the interpreter I have the launcher call
the interpreter from a host virtual machine for now (perhaps Swing and such
for example). There would be a system defined interface which defines and
declares the needed things for the launcher to work. So programs would instead
call into the launcher interface as a kind of system call. Then it should be
handled in a way where the launcher being Java code can work when it is
compiled and when it is running on another JVM such as desktop ones or
SquirrelJME itself. Of course the launcher which runs on the JVM would be stuck
to being interpreted, but tests could be ran on it and such.

## 13:59

Then this would mean there would be a launcher for each individual system
on top of the common base launcher. Having such a launcher would save some time
writing it and having an optionally integrated interpreter in it. For any
system specific stuff not defined in the CLDC I will just need a bridge package
which defines all of the interfaces that my initial host JVM launcher uses.

## 14:02

So if the launcher can invoke the compiler to generate code to be ran, then the
launcher would have to be bound to a native compiler if it can perform JIT.
There could also optionally be an attached interpreter too. The launcher using
the service loader can determine if an interpreter or a AOT/JIT interface is
being used.

## 14:05

So the first thing then would be to define the base launcher interface which
can manage things. Then there would be an extension of this launcher which is
defined by sub-classes, this becomes the driver which can perform the system
specific magical stuff changed by the compiler. To simplify the base however,
I would need to split the compact CLDC to a bare minimum set or at least
modify the package builder to allow for alternative dependencies in a kind of
replacement scheme. Or, I can have a special package which indicates that the
host classpath should be used instead of a dependency. This way the CLDC is
compiled and depended upon but it has no real effect since the system classpath
takes priority when it comes to using classes such as Object and such. That
would allow me to get away with defining a bunch of classes of the classes
that I use. The host JVM interface would use reflection and other details to
perform its magical work. Classes at least in this interface can be converted
so that they conform to Java SE 7 (renaming things also) then used directly.

## 14:28

So the launcher being done now rather than later will mean that I will be able
to design the interpreter and compiler into the launcher itself rather than
writing the launcher following it and then attaching the interpreter/compiler
to it. The launcher would call the compiler to generate native binaries and
then load them as needed.

## 14:47

I will actually need a GUI manager of sorts. I suppose for now I can stick
with a basic text based launcher interface. I suppose to keep it simple, the
base launcher should just use a console interface. Other interface would be
supported in the future if they are available.

## 15:22

For the base interface for the launcher, I will need JSR 238 so that I have an
internationalized interface as needed.

## 15:39

The terminal will just be a basic 16x16 color terminal potentially. However
RGB colors would be nice and may be supported on specific systems. Having
the color scheme be similar to DOS however would result in only requiring a
single byte for colors and such. Instead of annoying blinking text, the bits
will just be bright color and emphasis added.

## 17:09

So the launcher will also need an abstract file system interface so that the
host filesystem (or block device, which means I would have to implement a
file system driver) can be accessed for JARs, programs, and such.

