# 2016/05/23

## 09:29

I should keep images sorted to find them better and such.

## 09:41

Images should probably be sorted by type first, so that black and white images
appear before color ones for example. Although it really does not matter much.
If I request a ARGB image and there are monochrome images, then one could
be virtually created and used instead.

## 12:18

In the image loading, I need a way to specify the color mask or similar. Or
just change the XPM color name to None instead of having magenta.

## 14:51

It would probably be simpler, albiet a bit slower if all the display elements
used a single lock which matches the display manager. This means that the
entire state of the display would be very stateful.

## 14:53

Well, perhaps I do not.

## 14:54

Well, perhaps I should, especially in the future when it comes to the IPC and
such. There could quite possibly be a state where an action of one messes up
a result of another command, which would be difficult to debug. So for
simplicity, a single lock on the entire display.

## 15:18

I suppose I shall do something similar to swing and have a UIMenuItem which
can be given a picture and a label of text.

## 15:25

Once I have a basic user interface, I can go into finding archives and
determining which applications I could launch for example.

## 16:11

Probably going to clean up the NARF code some, move things around so that
everything does not start with "native-compiler".

## 16:13

Menus can contain sub-menus, so I need to either extend JMenu off JMenuItem or
have a new base class. Having JMenu be a JMenuItem might be the easiest.
However, I would run into the base class issue. A `SwingMenuItem` would not be
a `SwingMenu` which is problematic.

## 16:17

However, the adding code would handle these cases. I would have to do something
similar for components also. So the base class for `SwingMenu` and
`SwingMenuItem` would likely contain duplicate code.

## 16:19

Actually, the how the UI and Internal elements are managed will not work very
well with this current layout. After writing the menus I would likely go into
the component code next. The current means of doing things works, but the
class hiearchy can be a bit complicated. Right now most of my internal code is
just abstract methods. The concrete methods are helpers such as getting the
associated external element. So the only way to move forward and fixing my
stuff would be if all of the `Internal` classes became interfaces. Then the
internal stuff would just extend `InternalElement` which has those helpers and
the locks.

## 16:59

However, taking what I have and changing it to interfaces would be a bit ugly.
Right now there are two sets of classes. The Internal classes are layered on
top of the external ones. With a slight re-engineering with the usage of
`protected` and such I can have base classes to extend. However I still run
into the single base class issue.

## 17:05

I have grown used to the clouds visible outside my window moving from right to
left, however now they are moving from left to right. What I can do instead is
completely remove the `Internal` family of methods and then have a kind of
adapter attached to the `UI` classes. Basically the `UI` is the state of the
the user interface with icons, menus, and more. Then the code which provides
the UI to the end user duplicates that state. However an issue with this route
is that generic functionality (for example if menus are not supported) would
be lost and the provider would have to simulate the standard behavior in a
duplicated means. Another thing is if the UI is updated, there will need to be
a series of callbacks made in order for the state to be updated.

## 17:12

Actually, I can do something similar to what I am doing now. There would be
the UI elements which do everything and can handle many things. However, there
would instead of `InternalElement`, it would be `StateTracker<U>`. This would
be an interface and not an abstract class. The display manager would have a
factory which can create state trackers and such for the given `U`. Then
when an element changes and such, methods can call into the `StateTracker`.
For certain elements, there would be variants of the `StateTracker` for example
a `MenuStateTracker`. Then a `SwingMenu` would implement this interface. I
could also just use the term `NUI` instead for native user interface. So it
would be very similar to my existing classes. There would be binding for the
native UI elements which control what things do. The mapping of internal and
external or getting the display manager would be the same except the `NUI`
implementations would handle all that information. So the `UI` code would
just map and call into the interfaces.

## 17:18

Then when it comes to base classes, since everything is an interface it would
not really matter much and `SwingMenu` could extend `SwingMenuItem` easily now.

## 18:12

Perhaps a better prefix instead of `NUI`. Well, I suppose it does not really
matter much. Another alternative is instead just `PI` for platform interface,
but that can work.

## 18:19

Also, `PIBase` will not have a generic type attached, it will be handled by
a class cast instead.

## 18:24

`PIImage` does not make much sense, `UIImage` could just use the manager to
create the right kind of native image to be displayed. So the `PIManager`
would keep track of native forms of the image for example.

## 18:26

Also the managers being actual elements themselves is a bit ugly, so that is a
no go.

## 18:27

Then this means that instead of the `PI*` classes linking back in their
base constructors, the `UIManager` performs the linking after the objects
are constructed.

## 18:32

The factory is ugly, I will just do a bind to the native platform kind of
thing.

