# Code of Conduct

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for participants within the
SquirrelJME community, as well as steps to reporting unacceptable behavior.
We are committed to providing a welcoming and inspiring community for all and
expect our code of conduct to be honored. Anyone who violates this code of
conduct may be frowned upon by the community. Temporary to permanent bans may
be employed depending on the severity of the issues.

Our open source community strives to:

 * **Be friendly and patient.**
   * By using your imagination, imagine that other entities being communicated
     with have a round trip response time of up to 8 hours. When one entity
     does not respond immediately they currently may be busy performing another
     task or are oblivious to your communications because they have not yet
     arrived.
 * **Be welcoming.**
   * We strive to be a community that welcomes and supports entities of all
     backgrounds and identities for the use of this software. This includes,
     and is not limited to members of any species (except mosquitoes and
     wasps), genetic makeup, culture or lack of culture, universal origin,
     fur/epidermal/scale/feather layer spectral absorption and scattering,
     citizenship status, current placement on the socio-economical ladder,
     standard or non-standard test proficiency, physical abilities, physical
     disabilities, mental abilities, mental disabilities, ratio of one chemical
     to another chemical, mass, ideological beliefs, tail length, editor
     preference, operating system preference, file-system preference, CPU
     architecture placement, preferred energy and nutrient choices,
     transistor size, clock frequency, garbage collection algorithm, and legal
     entity status.
 * **Be considerate.**
   * Your work may or may not be used by others and you may or may not depend
     on the work of others. Any decision you make may or may not affect others,
     however you should consider the consequences of action or inaction.
     Remember that we are a universal community, so you might not be
     communicating in the preferred method that the other entity uses for
     communication.
 * **Be respectful.**
   * Not all of use agree or disagree all of the time, however disagreement is
     no reason to be hostile against other entities. Entities from time to time
     may become frustrated for various purposes and reasons. However, please
     do not turn such frustration on other entities. Potential relieving of
     stress/frustration may be cured by burning calories while looking at the
     local fauna and carbon-based life, playing a game of falling four piece
     blocks while avoiding legal action, digging around in a world made up of
     cubes, absorbing light rays produced by a flat or slightly curved surface,
     being exposed to high frequency vibrations caused by vibrating
     metal/plastic diaphragms, consuming a large number of calories, or
     entering a cycle of rest.
 * **Be careful in the words that we choose.**
   * We may be a community of professionals but we are also likely a
     community of hobbyists. Try your best to be kind to other entities, even
     if they sting and cause severe skin rash. Harassing other entities and
     employing behaviors for their exclusion is frowned upon.
 * **Try to understand why we disagree.**
   * Disagreements happen, whether it be social, technical, economical,
     political, virtual, physical, and mental. Try to construct an argument
     that is in favor of the other side and weigh them against your own
     arguments. Resolving of disagreements is important for cooperation,
     however even if a disagreement cannot be resolved there should be no
     reason for hostility. Sometimes the very differences of both sides may be
     correct and a solution forged from both of them. Also, always learn from
     your mistakes and others mistakes.

# Diversity Statement

Diversity is important and it is important that entities get along.
Cooperation is required to escape gravity wells in a sea of deadly radiation,
in a universe leading to the nullification of energy. There is no real purpose
in hate as it is only a distraction from reality.

# Reporting Unacceptable Behaviors

If an entity requires that a behavior is to be reported, such behavior should
be reported in the same area where it has occurred. For example something that
happens on IRC should be reported on IRC. If this is not possible then another
alternative may be chosen.

Note that many social communication systems support blocking and ignoring,
consider using these as it can nullify the hostile noise.

What is not acceptable is attacking those whose behavior is not acceptable. If
this is done then those entities merge as one.

