# Compatibility

SquirrelJME aims to be compatible with most programs however there are
situations and rare edge cases where there will be no compatibility. This is
to make the implementation easier.

## `Flushable` Classes

Class which were made `Flushable` to match Java SE, since in Java ME they
were not marked as being flushable. Since Java ME is designed to be a subset
and there were some errors made when updating Java ME, it is assumed that
this was intended to be done but was forgotten.

   * `Formatter`
   * `Writer`

## `Reader`'s `lock` is initialized to `null` instead of `this`

Since SquirrelJME uses a reference counted garbage collector the `Reader`'s
`lock` object in the default constructor is set to `null` instead of `this`.
This is so that readers do not remain in memory unable to be freed because
objects still refer to them and such.

## `SUPER` is always assumed to be set.

In all clases the `SUPER` flag is assumed to be set, this flag just modifies
the behavior of `invokespecial`. When it is not set then that instruction
can invoke nearly every method directly (it was called before
`invokenonvirtual`). However, the Java compiler since Java 1.1 always set
the flag for classes it compiled. Since CLDC 1.0 was released well after
Java 2 was and is defined as a Java 2 virtual machine all code written for
J2ME should have classes where this flag is set. As such instead of
supporting the logic to handle cases where it is not set, the flag will just
be ignored and assumed to be set.

## Supported Encodings

Only the following character encodings are supported:

 * _IBM037_
 * _ISO-8859-1_
 * _ASCII_
 * _UTF-8_

Note that UTF codepoints above U+FFFF are not fully supported and are not
available in Java ME. Surrogate pairs in UTF-16 will be encoded in UTF-8 as
six bytes. Additionally when decoding, if a sequence that is above U+FFFF is
read then it will decode to a surrogate pair. This may cause a loss of or
mutation of data when processing files.

See:

 * <https://unicode.org/faq/utf_bom.html#utf8-4>
 * <https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr26/>

