# Test Writing

As _SquirrelJME_ is its own virtual machine implementation it uses its own
testing system that is different from _JUnit_ or _TestNG_ however it is simple
and suits the needs of the project. The main intention of the test framework
is to allow for the testing on various virtual machines, since _JUnit_ while
it supports _Java SE_ it does not support _Java ME_. So as such there will be
some differences as to how tests are written along with their expectations.

# Placement of Tests

Like standard Java tests, the tests are placed within the standard directory
tree as like other _Gradle_ projects:

 * `module/src/test/java` -- Source code for tests.
   * `./TestCuteness.java` -- Test source.
 * `module/src/test/resources` -- Expectations for _SquirrelJME_.
   * `./TestCuteness.in` -- Test expectations for `TestCuteness`.

# Base Test Classes

All tests within _SquirrelJME_ extend from one of the base classes that
exist depending on what is needed for a test, all of these `abstract` classes
are declared in `net.multiphasicapps.tac`:

 * `TestBiConsumer` -- Takes two arguments, provides no result.
 * `TestBiFunction` -- Takes two arguments, provides a result.
 * `TestBoolean` -- Takes no arguments, provides a `boolean`.
 * `TestConsumer` -- Takes one argument, provides no result.
 * `TestFunction` -- Takes one argument, provides a result.
 * `TestInteger` -- Takes an `int` argument.
 * `TestLong` -- Takes a `long` argument.
 * `TestRunnable` -- Takes no arguments, provides no result.
 * `TestSupplier` -- Takes no arguments, provides a result.

# Results And Expectations

One of the major differences is that _SquirrelJME_'s test expectations are
written in an expectations file rather than as something that exists in
source code. The manifest itself is in the following format, the keys and
values are specified later on in the document. Since there are virtual machine
tests and the test framework uses the project's own implementation of the API
there can be potential cases where a test may falsely pass because of some
event or condition within the project that is erroneous. As such, since the
results are elsewhere and static they are for the most part compared via
string representation apart from some special conditions.

The manifest file is named the same as the test itself and is placed within
the same package from within `resources`. The resources are accessed in the
same manner as `Class.getResourceAsStream(classBaseName)` and as such
is in the specific format:

```manifest
result: NoResult
thrown: NoExceptionThrown
secondary-int--value: int:1234
```

The `result` is formed as part of the return value of a method, if there is
one. `thrown` is any exception that is thrown from the test method. Any
secondary value is set by using `this.secondary(key, value)` from a test, the
result is stored for later checking. Secondary keys may be any value however
they are dash encoded for special characters.

## Printing Resultant Manifest

In the event a manifest needs to quickly be created there is a property
which will print that manifest, this is generally used for getting the
baseline results via Java SE. This should _never_ be used outside of
that, as running a test and placing in its own values normally is a very
bad idea.

The following system property can be set:

 * `net.multiphasicapps.tac.resultManifest=true`

## Expectation Specifiers

The following expectation specifiers are used for various values. Arrays are
specified by `[length]` and the values within are split by `,`. Primitive
type arrays may have the type followed by `*`, such as `byte*[length]`, if
they indicate that the array is of a boxed type, such as `Byte[length]` rather
than `byte[length]` in Java.

Special specifiers for `result` and `thrown` are these:

* `NoResult`
    * Used only for `result`, specifies the return type is `void`.
* `ExceptionThrown`
    * Used in `result` when an exception is thrown.
* `NoExceptionThrown`
    * No exceptions are thrown from the method.

The general value specifiers are:

 * `true`
   * True boolean value, which is `Boolean.TRUE`.
 * `false`
   * False boolean value, which is `Boolean.FALSE`.
 * `boolean[<length>]:<arrayValues,>`
   * Boolean array values, each is encoded as `T` for `true` and `f` for
     false, and as such `[true, true, false]` encodes as `TTf`.
 * `string:<encodedString>`
   * Represents a single string.
 * `string[<length>]:<asString:,>`
   * An array of strings, which are encoded accordingly.
 * `char:<printableNonDigitGlyph|integer>`
   * A single character.
   * For printable non-digit ASCII characters this will be the glyph.
   * Otherwise, it will be an integer of the character code.
 * `char[<length>]:<asChar:,>`
   * An array of characters values.
 * `byte:<integer>`
   * An integral `byte` value, follows the rules of `Byte.valueOf(String)`.
 * `byte[<length>]:<asByte:,>`
   * An array of `byte` values.
 * `short:<integer>`
   * An integral `short` value, follows the rules of `Short.valueOf(String)`.
 * `short[<length>]:<asShort:,>`
   * An array of `short` values.
 * `int:<integer>`
   * An integral `int` value, follows the rules of `Integer.valueOf(String)`.
 * `int[<length>]:<asInt:,>`
   * An array of `int` values.
 * `long:<integer>`
   * An integral `long` value, follows the rules of `Long.valueOf(String)`.
 * `long[<length>]:<asLong:,>`
   * An array of `long` values.
 * `long-fudge:<asLong>:<absoluteDifference>`
   * Similar to `long:` except that the value may be within
     `<absoluteDifference>` using the formula:
     `expected - diff <= actual <= expected + diff`
 * `long-ignore-sign:<asLong>`
   * Similar to `long:` except that the sign bit is ignored.
 * `throwable:<throwableType>`
   * An exception that is thrown.
   * Exceptions in `java.lang` are just the base class name such as
     `throwable:IllegalArgumentException`.
   * Otherwise, they are the fully qualified class name such as
     `throwable:fully.Qualified`.
 * `other:<encodedString>`
   * Unknown value type, uses `Object.toString()`.

## String Encoding

For any `<encodedString>`, the characters are encoded as the following:

 * `null` is encoded as `\NULL`.
 * Double quote (`"`) is encoded as `\"`.
 * Single quote (`'`) is encoded as `\'`.
 * Space (` `) is encoded as `\_`.
 * Newline (`\n`) is encoded as `\n`.
 * Carriage return (`\r`) is encoded as `\r`.
 * Tab (`\t`) is encoded as `\t`.
 * Opening curly brace (`{`) is encoded as `\(`.
 * Closing curly brace (`}`) is encoded as `\)`.
 * Delete or `0x7F` is encoded as `\d`.
 * `0x00` through `0x1F` are encoded as `\0` to `\9` then `A` through `\V`.
 * Characters at or above 0x7F are encoded as `\@xxxx` with the character
   hex digit representation.
 * Otherwise, the ASCII glyph of the character.

## Secondary Key Encoding

The following characters map to the specified secondary key encoding:

 * `-` = `--`
 * `!` = `-x`
 * `"` = `-q`
 * `#` = `-h`
 * `$` = `-m`
 * `%` = `-c`
 * `&` = `-e`
 * `*` = `-s`
 * `+` = `-p`
 * `.` = `-d`
 * `/` = `-l`
 * `:` = `-o`
 * `?` = `-u`
 * `@` = `-a`
 * `^` = `-r`
 * `|` = `-i`
 * `~` = `-t`

# Example

An example test with the test expectations:

```java
// -*- Mode: Java; indent-tabs-mode: t; tab-width: 4 -*-
// ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
// SquirrelJME
//     Copyright (C) Stephanie Gawroriski <xer@multiphasicapps.net>
// ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
// SquirrelJME is under the Mozilla Public License Version 2.0.
// See license.mkd for licensing and copyright information.
// ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

package lang;

import net.multiphasicapps.tac.TestRunnable;

/**
 * Tests string trim.
 *
 * @since 2018/12/05
 */
public class TestStringTrim
	extends TestRunnable
{
	/**
	 * {@inheritDoc}
	 * @since 2018/12/05
	 */
	@Override
	public void test()
	{
		String cute = "squirrels are cute";
		
		this.secondary("a", cute.trim());
		this.secondary("b", "  \t      squirrels are cute".trim());
		this.secondary("c", "squirrels are cute    \t".trim());
		this.secondary("d", "       \tsquirrels are cute \t    ".trim());
		this.secondary("e", "           ".trim());
		this.secondary("f", "           ".trim());
		this.secondary("g", cute.trim());
	}
}
```

```manifest
result: NoResult
thrown: NoExceptionThrown
secondary-a: string:squirrels\_are\_cute
secondary-b: string:squirrels\_are\_cute
secondary-c: string:squirrels\_are\_cute
secondary-d: string:squirrels\_are\_cute
secondary-e: string:
secondary-f: string:
secondary-g: string:squirrels\_are\_cute
```
