# 2015/04/12

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 11:39

With a more static Provider, things get much simpler.

## 12:10

Since I am going to translate the JSON mapping directly, I am going to have to
have sane input maps for architectures and platforms. Before I just passed in
the entire object, but this time I will need to have an actual sub-object
which contains the CPU related information. So after loading the JSON object,
includes and such need to be evaluated recursively.

## 12:51

The JSON decoder rewriting must be performed now as BaseDecoder is bugged.

## 13:06

It has been quite awhile since I last touched this JSON code.

## 17:52

This new decoder code will be far superior to the older code.

## 19:38

Rewrote my JSON parsing code to be better. Thought the parser was wrong but
there ended up being a comma that should not have been there. But in
retrospect the decoder is much much better.

## 20:03

And it appears my reader lacks support for objects in objects.

## 20:05

Adding support was really easy.

## 20:08

Now I must do minor rewrite of the platform and architecture definition files
due to the changed nature of things.

## 23:58

Just need to write the cacher in the data, then after that I can move onto
providing information on registers and then the writing the Allocator.

