# 2015/04/16

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 11:53

Only 4 days before the project's birthday occurs, then it would have been one
year I have worked on this single repository. However, I am fast approaching
native code generation. My current work is the Allocator. All the other bits
of code have been cleaned up for the most part, packages split apart to
increase my build test speed. For the Allocator, the local variables and
registers are fixed to a single location. However if any saved values end up
being on the stack then they are to be accessed using slower means.

## 13:25

Actually the initial checkin is on the 26th, not the 20th. So 10 days.
Although I must keep thinking the 20th because that is likely when I thought
of dropping k5 and going for k8. But regardless, it has been quite a ride. I
will have to run gitstats after a year. Maybe even add yearly tags, but that
might not even be needed at all. The one good thing recently is being able to
test my actual recompiler work faster than before. My general code base has
changed much.

## 21:58

My CPU mapping by type stuff could be changed so that instead caches based on
the CPUData say using a SoftReference. Since the dynamic recompiler will be
called much, this information will be recalculated every single time when the
CPUData is not even changed. Therefor that would improve performance. If
memory does get low enough then it could be freed as needed by the garbage
collector and being a soft reference would make it easier to cache.

