# 2016/04/03

## 09:38

Was pretty worn out yesterday, so could not program as much.

## 12:50

In the future, I can have a virtual reflection API. Basically I create a class
file parser and then define methods which can create, iterate, and invoke
methods of another class. Such a thing could eventually be used for example in
an IDE or similar. I could have an IDE for the creating and editing of programs
for this so one can write code on said devices. I could also tie the
interpreter into it too so that code may still run and be tested. I also have
this idea of putting all of these notes into their own package which might be
included in a distribution of sorts.

## 13:25

Now that the class file code is refactored (except for the interface bits but
I can get to that later on), the next goal is the program parser and handler
which will act as the basis for the compiler and the interpreter.

## 14:50

I wonder if LWUIT could be layered on top, this assumes that it is provided by
Oracle as a library on top of vendor provided LCDUI and such. Looking at the
classes in the binary, it looks like they can put it on top of the canvas and
the game canvas. I would have to test this out in the future.

## 16:47

In a hypothetical Minecraft clone I could also have as a sample, I can have
a repeating world. This would mean that world is a kind of sphere of sorts.
Thus, the world would have a circumference of 33,554,431 meters. This would be
about 0.84 times the circumference of the Earth, so it would be a slightly
smaller size. The world would be 1.5 times the circumference of Mars but
should still be smaller than Venus. This is assuming I can fully trust
Wolfram Alpha and the data I put in without thinking about it.

