# 2016/04/10

## 09:31

Now to continue with code generation and such.

## 10:21

`CPVariableStates` may require the list of jump sources and the verification
state so derivation can determine what is what.

## 10:48

Actually it is not needed to pass it to them, the derivation can determine
such things.

## 12:14

I do wonder though if the current `classprogram` is overly complex and cached.
Right now I have a mashup of states which are all mutable and rather
intertwined with other states. However due to my recent refactoring and split
placement I should be able to change the entire `classprogram` structure
without requiring that I rework parts of the interpreter and such since I do
like some existing things. I like the operation handlers and the computational
state. The one thing that I would change is all the dynamic variable states
and the operations. The operations would be kept logical except their type
would be known and there could be possible derivations of `CPOp` for specific
instructions. Operations could still use computations. However the goal of
this refactor would be a very broadband simplification of the code. I would
still have SSA in the end however. I would propose that I:

 1. Get logical instruction orderings like I already do.
    * This is good because there are no gaps, the next instruction is always
      +1 and not +3 in some cases +2 in others.
    * Simplifies jumps and checking of states.
 2. Have `CPOp` for every instruction precreated with their initialized state
    with verifications.
    * These operations would chain to others potentially.
 3. Determine the variable states for every instruction along with their type
    inside of `CPOp`.
 4. Handle exceptions and such.
    * The SSA variable IDs would be merged and potentially "phi"ed if an
      instruction has multiple entry points and local variables contain
      different states.
    * Would also need to handle conditions where a variable may be used in an
      exception handlers and branches so that their values are saved even if
      they are pointless operations. However, this would only be done when
      it is a local to local copy, copies from locals to the stack are still
      pointless.
    * As such, the stack **NEVER** gets "phi"ed.
 5. Verify the states are correct by parsing the `StackMap`/`StackMapTable` and
    then dropping the verification info since it would not be needed.
    * Local variables which get removed away would not require that they be
      saved.
 6. Each operation would be able to be passed to a computational machine.
    * Operations that generally have no effect (they are copies) would just
      not perform any computations.
    * However, if a variable is "phi"ed then a computation is performed on it.
    * The general cases, storing values into locals would result in them
      potentially getting stored even if they are not actually used in the
      future. Later optimization passes could determine this however.

I would also keep the combined local and stack elements since uniformity is
nice.

As for "phi", the variable states for each operation would have a flag which
specifies that it is a junction of other types and that its current value is
not really that known yet.

## 12:29

This should in general result in cleaner and easier to maintain code, with an
added speed bonus at the cost of using extra memory (since now entire methods
would have to exist within memory). Thus most of the existing classes I have
would generally still exist, however they would be radically different
compared to before.

## 12:32

`CPProgramBuilder` would be merged into `CPProgram` and become its constructor.

## 19:11

Instead of jump target, the following addresses could just be operations. I
know of a way where I can determine the jump targets and have it all in the
operation code as required. The same could be said for operation sources. With
this I would completely remove the jump source and jump target list.

## 19:17

After I determine the natural and exception flow of instructions I can follow
with determine the states of variables and the SSA required bits such as "phi"
junctions and uniquely set values. However in retrospect, this new operation
handling is far simpler than before despite it having some recursion involved.
In general it should result in code that is much cleaner to maintain since the
current existing program representation was just a gigantic mess of mutables,
references, and other things. In the current case, the program description is
completely mutable which means multiple threads can safely work on it without
requiring locks. Thus as a result, the interpreter speed would be increased.

## 22:02

It would be too complex in the constructor to calculate the SSA states and
such, thus that will be delayed so that it is calculated when it is needed for
example.

## 22:16

I suppose I shall sleep soon, however with part of my pre-existing base and
refactoring the operations, things are a bit simpler now. The control flow
graph is more direct in that operations are used rather than jump targets and
jump sources. So a slight level of indirection was removed. Following this, the
variable types and SSA variables will need to be initialized. For that, the
types can be implicit as specified by the stack map, or explicit which is based
on actual operations. So the compute machine and the operation handlers will
return as such. They have not really gone away at all anyway. The class program
code is still the most line heavy code however at 1733 sloccount lines. However
once every operation is handled and the variable states are setup, I predict it
may be aroung 4000 lines total. 4000 is quite a high number, however the
operation handlers for each instruction that exists will add to the count by
quite a number. Once the SSA states and other such things get enough of a base
I can continue interpretation. The operation initialization is a bit recursive
however. The exception handler linking stuff by having it scan around makes it
a `O(n^2)` operation which is quite slow. So a gigantic method containing
65535 logical instructions will require about 4 billion iterations. I would
say tommorrow that I do something I did similarly to the jump sources.
Otherwise it will just be really really slow when more bulky methods come into
play.

