# 2016/04/27

## 10:27

I wonder how valid it would be for `newarray` and `anewarray` to return the
same object if an attempt is made to allocate an array of zero length for a
given class.

## 10:39

Time to start delving into the native code generation and SSA stuff since I
will need that for the invocation of methods. The first thing I will do is the
native compiler core so that the code generator and parsers are in separated
parts along with the personalities split apart.

## 11:09

Ok so as I have stated on the 20th of this month, the SSA and basic block
layout will remain simple so that although it would not heavily be that
optimized it should result in faster JITs for much weaker systems. The
resulting code should be smaller and faster than a literal pure interpreter
translation of the byte code. In essence, SSA will only be really performed
within the internals of the basic block rather than the entire method. So to
keep things simple, writes to locals will always be performed and basic blocks
will start on methods. So the instruction before the method is called, if
anything is on the stack it is calculated and stored into variables. Then at
the start of the new block which has the method call, the arguments are passed
around to the sub-method and existing stack storage places are ignored. Also,
getting and putting of fields will be the start of basic blocks also. Also, any
jump target is the start of a basic block. An exception for getting of a field
that is not the start of a basic block will be one which is final and has a
constant value assigned to it. That will just use the given value of the
field as a temporary, however this might not always be possible for instances.
I can also perform basic optimization with locals. For example if a local is
pushed to the stack and it is checked for null or an array operation is
performed then its length is "known" or it is null/not-null. So this means that
in addition to jump targets, I need to consider local variable sets. If a local
variable is set by any instruction then it cannot use a global cached state.
For example, the input of a method, the local variable for this if not changed
by the method it will be known that it is always non-null so it will be flagged
as such. However if the given parameter is changed, then it will be null
checked in each basic block. The resulting SSA would not produce the fastest
code, but the code generator should run fast and not use that much memory
when generating code.

## 12:04

Actually, not too sure if this would even be SSA.

