# 2019/07/01

## 08:23

Yay new month! Need atomic check, get, and set for monitors and such so
that way it works properly!

## 08:25

Also I should add a way to turn default exception handling on and off.

## 08:31

But actually that is done by the explicit exception check.

## 10:10

Okay so I actually have a great idea for Squirrel Quarrel:

 * Have the game be actual squirrels and squirrel like.
 * Turn based strategy game with AI opponents.
 * All four seasons varying what happens in the game (snow, leaves, etc.)
   and have it do special things.
   * A season could last 14 turns (two weeks)
 * Gathering of acorns and storing into caches.
 * Allow acorns to be burried and give them a percent chance to sprout
   into a tree which then takes a full year to grow. The sprout can be
   destroyed before it turns into a tree. After an entire year passes
   the sprout turns into a tree. Prevent walls of trees from being
   created. Burrying acorns remembers their location, there could be
   randomly burried acorns or "gifts" in the ground such as weapons
   or otherwise. Burrying acorns can quickly be used as a stash in the
   event that no proper stashes are available. Have just three basic
   building types:
   * Dreys (Squirrel nests), only in trees -- Spawns new squirrels after
     a few turns requiring acorns. Acorns can be stashed in dreys but only
     in smaller amounts. Dreys can also store a few squirrels to heal up
     as needed.
   * Stashes, trees/ground -- Allows acorns to be stashed in larger
     quantities and allows them to be spent.
   * Armory, ground -- Allows weapons to be constructed.
 * Very simplisitic game with simple rules and just squirrels as units.
 * Allow squirrels to be armored and given weapons such as swords and
   shields to allow their damage to increase.
 * Add buildings such as dreys which "breed" (really build) squirrels
   which can take a few turns. Dreys can be only be built in trees.
 * Start with a single squirrel. Acorn stashes are just used to store
   acorns long term.
 * Randomly generated levels, with trees around and basic edges. Keep
   everything flat so it is very easy to do and make level generators
   for.
 * Have team based AIs and such!
 * Acorns must be stashed in a drey or stash before they can be spent.
 * Acorns do not drop in the winter and spring, they drop in small amounts
   in summer and larger amounts in autumn. Although acorns in autumn do
   not regenerate once dropped. Leaves fall in autumn as well. In winter
   one must contend with snow conditions.
 * Squirrels rest heal a small amount by standing still. Faster healing is
   available when inside of a drey.
 * Sprouts which are next trees or buildings will never grow into a tree.
 * Allow movement through trees, although it costs higher movement.
 * Dreys and stashes can be placed in the center of the tree for building.
 * Squirrels can hide in leaf piles on the ground in autumn and in snow
   piles in winter.
 * Victory can either be destroying all the other enemy squirrels or stashing
   the most acorns after a given time limit.
 * Have a "Z" axis, one which involves being on a tree level and the ground
   level. Tree levels can only be accessed by climbing a trunk of a tree. One
   can drop on the ground at any point. This can be used to cross rivers for
   example which will not be crossable unless there are stepping stones.
   Squirrels in trees can drop down. Squirrels can drop down onto other
   squirrels for a stronger attack, and the other squirrel will just be pushed
   aside.
 * Squirrels in armor increase the protection of the squirrels but reduces
   movement speed. A squirrel which drops in armor is stunned for a turn
   unable to move after dropping.
 * Only a single unit can stand in a tile at a time, all buildings can be
   walked over.
 * Squirrels can steal acorns from enemy players in the event they need them.
 * Squirrels can carry a limited number of acorns before they have to put them
   in the stash. As usual, they must be stashed in the proper building in
   order for them to be used.
 * If a squirrel dies, it drops everything it is carying including weapons and
   armor. However to prevent the massive proliferation of armor and weapons,
   after a squirrel dies they will become rusted and only half affective but
   still with their full debuffs. This is to make players not be afraid of
   losing armored units and them getting free armor units. Armor and swords
   do break after awhile.
 * There is only a single currency: Acorns. Everything uses them and they
   should never run out in the map.

## 16:37

I want to keep the tileset simple. Keeping everything simplified the tilemap
will just be bytes, since that is simple.

 * 2-bits: Pile type
   * None
   * Acorns
   * Leaves
   * Snow
 * 2-bits: Pile size
   * None
   * Small (50 acorns, noisy leaves, snow movement -1)
   * Medium (100 acorns, stealth+noisy leaves, snow movement -2)
   * Large (200 acorns, stealth, snow movement -3)
 * 2-bits: Tile orientation
   * 0: NW, Tree Trunk
   * 1: NE, Tree Leaves 1
   * 2: SW, Tree Leaves 2
   * 3: SE, Tree Leaves 3
 * 2-bits: Tile type
   * 0: Grass
   * 1: Water/River
   * 2: Dirt
   * 3: Tree
