# 2014/10/08

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 03:??

I believe my simple compiler is not simple enough, it should probably just
handle Java for the most part. Although in the future I will need C support. I
should perhaps keep it a simple single-pass code generation engine of sorts
that runs through a file, obtains a bunch of information, then generates code
from it. There can then be a common code generator of sorts.

## 06:03

Have this idea for filesystem stuff, in the event that there is no real time
clock, use some other time system if possible. Perhaps a time since uptime
past a certain mount count. On a mount of a filesystem increase the mount
number by one, this will be the master time clock. Then, the number of clock
pulses that have passed will be known by a CPU (even if by a simple loop which
if that is the only way it will be the number of loop runs). So if a system
has been up for 123,456 seconds (about 34 hours) and the current mount number
on the file system is 789, then the file time will be 789:123,456 and a file
created at an even higher uptime of 234,567 on a previous mount of say 788
will be older.

## 06:22

For that to work though, time since last mount would be used instead of
uptime, although both would be atomic. I wonder how most code that relies on
time would handle cases where wall time that we use is undefined.

## 15:47

Have not been able to code much these days, just cannot concentrate on
programming.

## 16:45

Marble Madness has some nice music, I just cannot concentrate on writing this
parser for tokens, thoughts too much on the native class loader and the class
compiler. Thoughts outside around in the real world. Have not played the piano
in awhile, perhaps for a few months.

## 17:01

Looking at my since dates, not much from June exists in the current source
tree after prunes of old code and such. June was echelon month where I worked
on pretty much all of echelon, and now none of it exists. But, I learned from
that experience and now I have compiler-wrapper. However I can sort of dip
back into my old code writing the class format handler since I did have
loadable classes then.

