# 2014/10/18

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 17:32

I believe I am going to go back to the old source extractor, it was a bit ugly
but it works, I just need a new way to name things, classes based on locality
and such.

## 18:02

Rewrote then name stuff to be a bit more specific so to speak. I will have to
redo the imports slightly and perform some abiguity detection so stuff like
SQL Date and util Date does not collide.

## 22:08

The name based references may work, I just need to process all of the source
code to see if it actually does. I have not fixed the constructor issues
however. I believe what I need to do for that, is have a private and a package
private level. That is if there are no public or protected constructors, count
the number of private and package privates ones. If there is at least one
package private one create the implicit lone constructor as package private.
However, if there are no constructors then nothing is to be done at all
(because then it can just be new out of nowhere). There has to be some
bridging though, for constructors so I will have to store class stuff when I
need it, a map of classes to solve the constructor fun. Would also work for
the constructor and throw blank argument stuff, as that could refer to some
missing constructor.

## 22:35

All of these classes take up tons of space, incomplete stripping and it is
already 3,387KiB. Makes me wonder about the blank documentation that is there,
perhaps instead of including it I can just not include it. Anything that is
not documented would be indicated in missing JavaDoc stuff. Another thing I
need to do is, if a class implements a package private class then drop it. If
it extends off one, then use that ones super class until it is no longer
package private. Also need to fix imports of inner classes it seems (it tries
to import an inner class which is static).

## 23:24

The SQL date stuff works fine.

## 23:49

The generated code is much lighter when the JavaDoc stuff has been stripped
from it.

