# 2014/10/20

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 12:30

Need to figure out a good algorithm for output of characters on separate lines
when they are too long. Perhaps a simple two variable loop through the input
string would work.

## 13:28

Building a partition map of the line would in fact be the best thing to do as
I can then just split it based on partitions and such.

## 15:00

What I wrote does not work it seems.

## 15:04

Nothing was being printed as such because I was not even using the neat
writer, but I did find a few errors which are hopefully fixed now.

## 15:18

My write was never being called, but I overloaded the incorrect method so now
that I have the right stuff it works now.

## 17:52

Now that I have a gigantic class library, I need to get it compiled now.

## 19:27

Fixing up the base classes I have extracted (prototypes only), and right now
only a single error shows up. Most likely it is a hoax and it just stops on
that error before other things are done.

## 19:45

Changed the genrtjar script to compile each package alone so things go a bit
faster. That is faster failure but slower in total.

## 21:17

Now my repository it bloated with all of these new classes, but I decided on
one commit per package to keep things separate for a bit.

## 21:17

219 commits in 7 minutes, must be a new record.

