# 2019/08/24

## 09:59

Okay so the table section links (for address and size) should be weak
references because otherwise these sections will never get freed. We
can use references because the table will always have a link to all the
sections. So when we are using it, we do not have to worry about our
section references going away. But once the table is GCed it cannot be
used anyway.

## 11:37

It would be cool to build SquirrelJME on my phone, although the lack of
the Java compiler tools complicates things a bit. I think I could stub
around it and still have it work (by calling system commands) although
it would be a bit of an interesting thing. Maybe I could split the
bootstrap so that it can use any compiler implementation? Or at least
SquirrelJME's internal compiler system.

## 11:44

Big problem with this right now is that it distracts me from things. Also
it would be complicated to rewrite the boot-process again anyway. I think
it would be best for me to think about this again when I have a working
Java code compiler. I mean once I have that, then bootstrapping SquirrelJME
from any environment provided there is a C compiler would be easy.
Because I can just do a snapshot of the run-time JAR and run it in
RatufaCoat no problem. Of course I would need filesystem support and
otherwise.

## 12:41

So when building the pool, the only time the pool is needed is in the
minimizer and that should be simple really.

## 14:42

Actually I do not need to have the targetted pool, I can just directly use
the double pool. Then I can do lookup at build time based on indexes, if it
uses the master pool. So it would always be a sub pool.
