# Could It Run SquirrelJME?

# Arduino

 * _Verdict_: No
 * **CPU**: 8-bit ATmega328P @ 16MHz
 * **RAM**: 2KiB SRAM, 1KiB EEPROM
 * **ROM**: Same as HDD
 * **HDD**: 32KiB
 * **NET**: Serial
 * **HID**: None

It may be possible to cram a Hello Squirrels in the flash ROM and boot it, but
the severe lack of memory will definitely hurt. Targets such as this would
require a specially designed compiler that generates the tiniest code possible.

# Nintendo 64

 * _Verdict_: All
 * **CPU**: 64-bit MIPS @ 93.75MHz
 * **RAM**: 4MiB, 8MiB w/ Expansion Pak
 * **ROM**: 64MiB
 * **HDD**: SD/CF (64Drive), 0-4x32KiB (Controller Pak)
 * **NET**: USB (64Drive), Parallel (GameShark)
 * **HID**: Joystick, Mouse

This console has enough power, RAM, and speed to reliably run virtually all
SquirrelJME programs. The only main consideration is lack of input. There is
a mouse peripheral, but in most cases only the joystick would be used.

The 64Drive provides access to the USB interface (as a serial device) and the
storage card.

# Nintendo Entertainment System

 * _Verdict_: Hello Squirrel (NROM), Simple Programs (MMC5)
 * **CPU**: 8-bit 6502 @ 1.78MHz (NTSC), 1.66MHz (PAL)
 * **RAM**: 2KiB internal, 64KiB & 8KiB (MMC5)
 * **ROM**: 512KiB (PowerPak), 1024KiB (MMC5)
 * **HDD**: 32KiB (PowerPak)
 * **NET**: None
 * **HID**: Joystick

Note that the PowerPak does not support MMC5. It is not known if NES games can
be given access to the PowerPak CF block device.

Slow but there should be enough memory to run basic programs, although special
mappers could provide much more via special hardware support. The 8-bit CPU
would be quite a bottleneck. More advanced programs could run, but the only
viable run that would really run is a _"Hello Squirrels"_ type application.

# Nintendo Game Boy

 * _Verdict_: Hello Squirrel
 * **CPU**: 8-bit LR35902 (8080, Z80) @ 4.19MHz
 * **RAM**: 8KiB internal, 32KiB w/ cart
 * **ROM**: 976KiB (8Mb)
 * **HDD**: Unknown
 * **NET**: Serial
 * **HID**: Joystick

Likely, it could only run very basic programs such as _"Hello Squirrel"_s. The
main factor is lack of RAM, having almost 1MiB of ROM should be good enough.
The 8-bit CPU will create very slow integer and even slower floating point
arithmetic. If a cart can provide an actual 32KiB of memory, that would not
do much since the run-time inforation and linkage tables would have to be
in memory. However, since there would only be less than 65KiB of RAM, that
means that all pointers can truly be 16-bit.

# Sega Dreamcast

 * _Verdict_: All
 * **CPU**: 32-bit SH4 @ 200MHz
 * **RAM**: 16MiB
 * **ROM**: ~750MiB
 * **HDD**: SD (Adapter), 0-8xVMU (100KiB)
 * **NET**: Modem, Ethernet
 * **HID**: Joystick, Keyboard, Mouse

Supports homebrew very easily and has essentially all of the peripherals
needed to be an actual useable computer. The only consideration would be the
lack of storage. Other than that, the VMU could store a bunch of basic files
as needed.

The ethernet adapter is rare.

The modem will require a PPP client to connect to networks.

# Sega Virtual Memory Unit:

 * _Verdict_: No
 * **CPU**: 8-bit LC86000
 * **RAM**: 256B
 * **ROM**: Same as HDD
 * **HDD**: 100KiB user, 10KiB unused
 * **NET**: Direct Connection
 * **HID**: Buttons

The 256 bytes of RAM is the main stopping point for running code reliably. So
the alternative would be a kind of emulated system which uses the flash storage
area as main memory instead. One issue with this however is that it would very
much wear down the flash on these old devices. Two VMUs connected to each
other however would mean a dual CPU system with double the memory and flash
storage. However even then, 512B is not much memory at all.

# US Robotics Pilot 1000, Pilot 5000

 * _Verdict_: Most
 * **CPU**: 32-bit m68k @ 16MHz
 * **RAM**: 128KiB (Pilot 1000), 512KiB (Pilot 5000)
 * **ROM**: Same as RAM
 * **HDD**: Same as RAM
 * **NET**: Serial
 * **HID**: Buttons, Touchscreen

Most programs should be able to be ran at a decent speed.

One consideration is that the more stuff in storage, the less RAM that is
available for programs for usage. As such, SquirrelJME will require that free
space exists in storage so it may be allocated for program usage.

