# 2014/12/20

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 13:52

I believe I will switch to HTML for my blog format and then have each day be
in its own HTML file. A bit more bloated for documentation with HTML compared
to LaTeX, but HTML is painful but more common to parse compared to some
archiac LaTeX stuff. Also for my documentation groups I am probably going to
use Compiled HTML Help files, a format by Microsoft but it condenses all the
files and provides searching and indexing in the format so it has its
benefits. Being a single file means it will be easier to copy the entire set
of documentation as it would not be exploded on the disk storage area. The
standard format is LZX compressed similar to CAB files and I do not know how
good it is compared to GZip/Deflate. I can also include all the API
documentation in the CHM also so that has an added bonus.

## 14:12

Also the blog being many different files will probably be better for finding
what belongs to what rather than going through a gigantic file and such to see
what was on my mind.

## 14:47

Also things were getting insane, eventually I would have a 10,000 line LaTeX
file.

## 19:17

Seeing that properties in a device tree are just names and byte values I can
just skip using that class and just use DeviceNode directly to represent the
tree.

