# 2014/10/16

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 10:02

Woke up, constructor work now.

## 11:07

For the pretty stuff, I can just run it post indentation, that is on the final
file. It only needs to break long lines in specific cases so it does not have
to be super complex.

## 11:50

Constructors should be done, now must do import statements. Will need to
recursively go through everything for the most part, which will be fun.

## 13:30

I believe I have pretty much all of it complete, also doing compilation tests
and they seem to work sort of, although there are some issues. Just need to
block out those internal imports and delve deeper into annotations.

## 14:26

Now that util compiles, I should have everything working, so now I just need
to do is test if all of it compiles as a whole.

## 14:42

Need to fix: Classes which extend off the same named class (SQL Date extends
Date and also imports Date); throwing throwables which are abstract; Super
seems to not be diregarding privates or publics?. Making implicit private
constructors package private should alleviate a few troubles.

## 15:05

This is too much of a hack on a hack, I will need to rewrite the doclet code
to be much cleaner. So, I will have to rewrite it, but I will keep the old one
around. At least now I know how all of the doclet stuff work and what to
expect. What I need to do for this new method is to build a giant tree of
usages and classes with all of the stuff it contains. Use the full context of
things, then when it comes to printing time nothing is ambiguous.

## 23:53

A map of a map is a bit eh, would be best to have a map of some kind of
storage thing that is nicer and more generic.

