# 2016/03/03

## 00:04

This will be rather exciting when I do get to native code generation. I can
potentially target this TI89 Titanium I have, which I obtained for 20 USD from
a garage sale. It has a m68k processor, so that means I can easily target
older m68k Palm PDAs along with this calculator and have similar code
generation. I could also potentially target m68k Macs, although I am not too
sure of that one since I do not have such devices. There are also Amiga based
m68k systems too, which I also do not have. There are however emulators for
such systems however, so I suppose that will have to be good enough.

## 00:18

Ok, so the main thing I must figure out is how to actually read ZIP files.
There is an offset to the start of the central directory, however it is a bit
off. I suppose I can figure something out how to handle the offset. The main
confusion is the central directory and file headers. I suppose the central
directory points to file headers based on reading the specification.

## 12:48

I should allow delegation for the Main-Class so that if a package lacks it but
a dependency has a main, then that can be used instead.

## 13:55

And with these tests that I have, it should be far easier to determine if my
interpreter is working correctly by having actual tests instead of just running
hairball as the interpreter test. In the future, these tests can be used to
make sure that the target compiled code works correctly. Then in another
future it can be used to test if the Java compiler generates code correctly.

