# 2016/03/11

## 00:03

Brute force can work.

## 00:13

This initial value I have is rather difficult when it comes to elimination.

## 00:16

Actually, I could use what I have now as a kind of heuristic and have a spliced
off huffman tree which is in four parts. That would reduce the runtime memory
requirement so to speak. I would need to be in all active trees at the same
time however. If a rover falls off the tree then it is not that route. If I
were to visuallize the entire huffman tree and its routes.

## 08:48

I would not need a tree if I made a gigantic method which does comparisons on
all of the tree values. So basically it would just consist of branches. Then
it could exist in the ROM. I do wonder how big such a method would be though
since there are byte code limitations.

## 09:08

Well the gigantic method of ifs seems faster. The gigantic method of ifs is
about 3887 byte codes long. I could actually do better with it. Right now the
byte code is just getting the field every single time even though it is final,
I can just pass it to the method instead.

## 09:14

And having it invoke a method is 3038 bytes of byte code.

## 09:24

I can also compact the giant method a bit by removing some of the leaves since
now I notice a pattern to the bits.

## 09:47

The byte code count really goes down when I compact a large portion of the
tree into a single addition.

## 09:50

For now.

	2824  2016-03-11 09:46   net/multiphasicapps/io/DeflateFixedHuffman.class

Then removing some very large branches

	1360  2016-03-11 09:50   net/multiphasicapps/io/DeflateFixedHuffman.class

## 09:53

Then a final compaction brings me to:

	932  2016-03-11 09:53   net/multiphasicapps/io/DeflateFixedHuffman.class

So initially it was 3887 reading a field, then 3038 when not reading it. Now
with the maximum compaction of the tree it is 156 byte codes long. So this is
rather very nice. So what I have now is about 5% original size. So now after
having a built-in fixed tree, there is no more need for a global and such. The
only thing I require generation for is the dynamic huffman tree.

## 09:59

It also just takes up 28 lines of code, which is quite simple. This is compared
to the previous 500 or so lines.

## 11:46

I am going to need a generic inflation or deflation routine which is then put
through a processor. So instead of `InflaterInputStream` there is some kind of
chunked stream instead which is initialized with a processor. The input/output
stream variants of it would in general just process the bytes. This would be
handy because in the future I am going to need a cleaner way to handle GZip
and ZLib streams which use Deflate without creating a bunch of wrapped input
streams and such.

## 17:31

I believe having a given byte buffer backing for the `CircularBitBuffer`
would complicate the implementation.

## 17:43

I could just use a boolean array, a smart JVM will just use a compact form of
it anyway so I really do not need to worry about space efficiency because it
is hidden away.

## 17:49

And forcing a minimum number of bits would be easier implementing a
decompressor because then I would need to handle partial bit states and such.
It would just be easier because I can read a bunch of bits without worrying
about running out (during say a fixed huffman read).

## 17:57

I can also use a base class for the buffers since right now they have a bunch
of duplicate code.

## 19:38

I cannot use single arrays with the generics though since the types clash
with the primitive type and I cannot specify an array of a primitive type.

