# 2016/03/17

## 11:20

The attributes which are not included in Java ME are:

	The Synthetic attribute (JVMS ??4.7.8) 
	The Signature attribute (JVMS ??4.7.9) 
	The SourceFile attribute (JVMS ??4.7.10) 
	The SourceDebugExtension attribute (JVMS ??4.7.11) 
	The LineNumberTable attribute (JVMS ??4.7.12) 
	The LocalVariableTable attribute (JVMS ??4.7.13) 
	The LocalVariableTypeTable attribute (JVMS ??4.7.14) 
	The Deprecated attribute (JVMS ??4.7.15) 
	The RuntimeVisibleAnnotations attribute (JVMS ??4.7.16) 
	The RuntimeInvisibleAnnotations attribute (JVMS ??4.7.17) 
	The RuntimeVisibleParameterAnnotations attribute (JVMS ??4.7.18) 
	The RuntimeInvisibleParameterAnnotations attribute (JVMS ??4.7.19) 
	The AnnotationDefault attribute (JVMS ??4.7.20) 
	The BootstrapMethod attribute (JVMS ??4.7.21)

And this is a list of every attribute, with ones not cared about marked:

	--- Listed above.
	+++ Not listed above, but should be gone due to lack of reflection.
	*** Not needed at the VM level, but needed by Java compilers.
	
	SourceFile---***
	InnerClasses+++***
	EnclosingMethod+++***
	SourceDebugExtension---
	BootstrapMethods---
	ConstantValue
	Code
	Exceptions***
	RuntimeVisibleParameterAnnotations---***
	RuntimeInvisibleParameterAnnotations---***
	AnnotationDefault---
	MethodParameters+++***
	Synthetic---
	Deprecated---***
	Signature---***
	RuntimeVisibleAnnotations---***
	RuntimeInvisibleAnnotations---***
	LineNumberTable---
	LocalVariableTable---
	LocalVariableTypeTable---
	StackMapTable
	RuntimeVisibleTypeAnnotations+++***
	RuntimeInvisibleTypeAnnotations+++***

So with all of the removals I only need to consider the following:

	ConstantValue
	Code
	StackMapTable
	StackMap (for older J2ME code, similar to StackMapTable)

Which simplifies things greatly. I should however include some kind of debug
information with the line number table at least, so if exceptions are thrown
it can be determined where they are. The line number table would probably be
in an external map file if it is not feasible to include it.

## 11:35

I should also note that these 4 annotations, 1 is for fields, 1 is for methods,
and 2 are for codes. This means I can pretty much just completely skip parsing
annotations in class files because they are just pointless.

## 14:39

Need to keep an eye out for signature polymorphic signatures. I also believe I
will just not have a flag for `invokedynamic` override.

## 14:50

I do wonder how I can have a rather light decoding of fields and methods.

## 16:17

I suppose to reduce the static consant requirements and such, I will have
error codes for exceptions rather than having english derived messages. If you
have a small amount of storage space, then you might not want to waste it on
descriptive exception messages.

## 18:29

And I finished translating all the errors, that took about 2 hours to do.

## 21:02

Made a sub-reddit for this: <https://www.reddit.com/r/SquirrelJME/>. This
will be useful for technical support and feature requests and would be a bit
more public compared to e-mail.

