# 2016/03/19

## 10:34

Need to increase some efficiencies in certain aspects.

## 10:38

Usually when it comes to immutable classes, I just have `protected final` and
then have getters. Using `public final` fields could cause lockin (but if
people use it, they may be forced to change). However methods may be added
and such. It would be cleaner so to speak, despite being a bit against the
existing Java mantra. There are no beans, no method handles, no lambdas. Using
fields with lambdas is interesting though (requires the `() ->`), however there
is none of that here. Also, less methods would be smaller and faster to
translate. Having getters would include the method and the field itself. So
I suppose for immutable I will use public final fields if applicable, then
otherwise if it is insane to use that, then getters will be used. However
stuff which is cached, would be behind getters still. Alternatively though,
this can be seen as premature optimization.

## 11:14

Would be premature, the optimizer when generating code can handle such details.

## 12:19

I should make an interpreter which can be used as a re-compilation pass to
native code (as I am doing already) but have it in a pass form. Basically it
treats the class as in input stream, picks out any needed data, and then is
done with it. Loading and byte code verification could be done in a single pass
and be translated to register form. Then the interpreter would be a bit faster
and it would be ready for native code compilation.

## 12:22

I could also modify the descriptors to be more cachable and be able to use
CharSequence to reference the descriptor data. Then there would not be a need
to duplicate strings, because the descriptor could already be a string.

## 16:33

Ok, so a linear loading class format should be a bit more inline. So
essentially that would mean a mutable `JVMClass`.

## 16:44

I can actually create a cache manager which does not use reflection. However
it would require that said `Reference` objects always exist, so there would
be an extra object. There would also need to be an existing class or an extra
class in memory (so it can get `newInstance()`ed). So although a bunch of the
cache code is duplicated from each other, that is actually more minimal.
Although, I could perform a kind of trick pertaining to it. Essentially I
would do the call such as:

    ref = Cache.<Foo<V>>cache(this, ref, Instantiator.class);

Then the Instantiator class would be capable of creating a new of this object.
If the instantiator is not loaded (it would be in a WeakHashMap) then it would
be constructed and initialized (and stored into the map). Then if the class is
collected, then its instantiator goes away. However, the value can also be
a `WeakReference`, so it would essentially be
`WeakHashMap<Class<?>, WeakReference<?>>`. This way the instantiator can be
collected when not used, yet reused multiple times if it does need to be used.
The class type would be a weak key, so if the instantiator is never referenced
again it goes away.

## 16:53

It would probably be a `Instantiable` interface used by a `CacheInstantiator`.
The only issue is returning the value given by the cache. I would likely need
to allocate an array for output. This would be needed because otherwise a
garbage collection cycle can during the return of the method, which will cause
the freshly cached object to be collected. Then ref would just return `null`
which would be an error.

