# Style Requirements

## Always Tab With Size 4

Indentation is not done with spaces at all, it is pure tab. The tab size used
is 4 spaces.

## Never Exceed 79 Characters Per Column

There is a maxiumum limit of 79 characters per line of source code and in
other files also.

## Always Surround Ternary Operators With Parenthesis

When using ternary operators, you must always surround them in parenthesis even
if they are obvious. That is they must appear in the form of
`(condition ? true : false)`.

## Do Not Use Default Methods

Default methods in interfaces are not supported.

## Do Not Use Static Modifiable/Mutable Globals In Standalone Classes

The garbage collector upon determining that a class (which may contain static
variables treated as globals) is no longer referenced, it may be garbage
collected. This means that if you set a global in a class such as that and
then reference it later, it may be reset to its default value. This is more
likely to happen on lower memory systems where the garbage collector will act
more aggressively.

## Use Error Codes

Although descriptive details of why an exception is thrown is a nice thing, it
can waste much space on the static constant data and some extra time building
the messages. In general cases, exceptions that require detailed messages
might not always occur while in the case where they are needed the details
are important. All appearences of error codes must have the following
before it declared in a comment:

	{@squirreljme.error CODE What this means. (Any extra values which are
	displayed in the message)}

All files are scanned for these sequences to build the error table which is
used by maintainers and developers for debugging.

## Use Property Descriptions

Similar to error codes, this lists the system properties that are defined by
the code. Since there may be a multitude of system properties which are
available, they must be documented.

	{@squirrejme.property net.multiphasicapps.some.property A description of
	what the system property is for, which kind of values it takes, and how it
	may potentially modify execution if at all.}

All files would be scanned to extract this information placed into the system
property documentation.

## Use Service Identifiers

If a kernel IPC service identifier is used then it must be documented so that
potential collisions are avoided. Each service identifier is a positive number
that specifies the use and potentially the protocol of the IPC service.

	{@squirreljme.serviceid 1 shortname The description of the service.}

## Command Line Options

If a command line option is made available then the following must be used:

	{@squirreljme.cmdline -foo=(bar) The description of the command line
	switch.}

