# 2016/09/07

## 09:43

Actually the other way around would be better. That is having the Set use the
map, I can really just use null keys or a marker object.

## 14:09

No wonder no nodes were ever red, since the color default to null, basically
just black.

## 15:58

So calling a method requires that temporary registers are saved somewhere. Any
arguments to be passed are placed in the argument registers. If an argument
is not temporary then that also must be saved. Due to my previous ruling of
forcing locals to always be up to date, locals do not have to be saved, only
temporary registers that are on the Java stack which use temporary
registers. A such, the minimum stack space needed for a method is the number
of local variables which are available. So then this means that local variables
are copied on the call and also passed as arguments to be stored in local
variables on the stack for exception handling. Basically since locals must be
stored on the CPU's stack for exception handling (so they can be restored by
the exception handler, or some other jump target), at the start of every method
I will need to generate code that copies the input arguments to these
positions. The number and type of input arguments are always known however.
This may be the simplest route to take, although there will be a loss of speed
due to storing values in memory. However, the locals would operate on an
entirely copy on write mentality. Then this also means that saved registers are
mapped to local variables and the initial arguments are just saved. However if
the input argument registers are considered temporary then their values can
just be copied to the saved registers which are then mapped to local variables,
written to the stack, and the temporaries cleared. This would be a bit of a
shuffle however.

## 16:08

The copying and shuffling can be done right after the arguments are primed and
the first instruction point placed after the shuffle code.

## 17:35

Although it will be slightly shuffled, because I should have the remaining
arguments first. This way I can still conform to the calling convention in
case I ever need to call libraries.

## 18:21

For the LUI, I can cheat by making a vt100 interface that just uses
`System.out`. I can then additionally work on Squirrel Quarrel and have for
example AIs battling each other. Although I would be unable to play I could
use the basic interface to implement a few other things however. Also with the
plan for LUI interfaces, I can even have a LUI interface which implements the
LCD UI from MIDP 3 potentially. I suppose that I would like these interfaces
to be visible via the service loader, however this basic interface should
have a very low number so that it is chosen last.

