# 2016/09/10

## 08:07

Something that may be most efficient would be to have it where the JIT writers
are essentially the description interfaces with some modified methods. However
they still need to be bridged in some cases because the JIT will perform
some basic register allocation.

## 13:41

For the generic JIT, I should move off the actual file output bits to another
class rather than having it done in the classes themselves.

## 13:44

Another thing is that class flags can go in the global pool since many classes
could share the same flags, but these are just a single bitfield which would
cost a few more bytes to reference.

## 13:46

It might be easier to refactor the base JIT changes into a new JIT which I
will call the basic JIT.

## 13:52

Requiring that something registered to the output have properties for later
system property output usage, is a bad idea. It should be optional and if it
does exist then they can be used accordingly. I do need a system property
system that can be reused to initialize and setup the JIT without being
helped by the operating system target information. Although I still have to
solve this issue.

## 13:56

Basically I need a serialization and a de-serialization of the configuration
data. So this means I should split off the immutable configuration and instead
have a configuration builder. JIT specific parts would need to be initialized
by properties which are serialized and de-serialized as needed.

## 15:02

One thing that somewhat needs to go is the cache system which writes to the
disk somewhere, that can be handled by a JIT output system of sorts. Basically
the JIT outputs namespace binaries as normal, then that cache can be read from
when it is needed. Before this was part of the configuration system, however
it no longer is a part of it. I suppose one thing I should do is have an actual
package that handles the JAR cache system for compilation. That is, the AOT
compiler for the SquirrelJME binary acts the same as if it were the JIT
running on real hardware.

## 15:07

So `JITCacheCreator` goes away and instead I suppose somewhere in `jit-base`
there is a cache selection system that can figure out what to use. It must
be in the base because it should not pull in the entire JIT since one might not
even be included at all.

## 18:05

I suppose `JITNamespaceContent` should instead become `JITNamespaceBrowser` and
in `jit-base`. Then `JITCacheManager` can go away. Then the browser can be
used to implement that functionality.

