# 2015/11/05

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 11:20

Still setting up the new system, was hoping to do a long compile job
overnight but that failed.

## 15:24

The Java VM documentation does not directly state the type of constant pool
entry to use for a field descriptor.

	#2 = Class              #15            // java/lang/Object
	2: anewarray     #2                  // class java/lang/Object

So I suppose that is for that combination.

	#2 = Class              #16            // "[I"	
	2: anewarray     #2                  // class "[I"

So that works out.

## 15:36

I wonder why the new array types start out at 4 instead of zero and appear in
a random order. I suppose those are the stack types defined in the compiler
of the JVM, the lower values may be TOPs or return values.

## 15:58

I most likely do not need to use funny calls for things when using the special
stuff. This would also make it easier to implement stuff using normal assembly
calls without requiring lots of black magic.

## 17:48

I can greatly simplify throwing of NullPointerException by just having a call
which is essentially just `vmThrowNullPointerException`.

## 17:57

I could also use an AutoCloseable scratch slot too (in temporary).

## 18:59

Next instruction to handle is IFEQ. I did not do much today while setting up
the other system.

## 23:24

Joy! OpenJDK 8 compile on this AMD64 system (which is an Intel Atom), it only
took 758 minutes because I have it use the Zero VM just in case any other
VM decides to crash and burn.

