# 2015/11/14

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:25

Currently at:

	[INFO] +++ java/lang/reflect/AccessibleObject (42 remain, 83 of 126).

Must handle ARRAYLENGTH now, this should be rather easy.

## 00:31

At:

	[INFO] +++ java/util/Locale$FilteringMode (53 remain, 102 of 156).

I get a NPE.

## 00:36

And with the stuff I have so far, while most of it is TODO. I have this:

	[INFO] +++ java/text/AttributedCharacterIterator$Attribute (0 remain, 288
	of 289).
	[INFO] Build took 225,200ms.

4 minutes to compile mostly blank methods.

Since lots of stuff is being compiled where it might not even be needed I
should implement a dependency system which uses called methods and such. That
is only compile methods which are used. However that would require some actual
processing of code because there could be casts and such.

## 00:40

Alternatively I can subset profile zero and have a minimum set of classes, but
I would need to calculate the dependencies of those. The classes could
eventually end up just requiring all the others anyway.

## 10:02

There are 1224 source files in profile 1 however. So only a small fraction of
the classes are used. 4 minutes does beat 4 hours compiling the Linux kernel
though. So the next thing to do is write out the KBF format and initialization
code so the kernel can boot and such.

## 16:17

Busy outside day today.

