# 2015/10/18

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 02:39

Was quite tired, awoke some time ago. The heater dries up the air so a
humidifier is required.

## 04:00

Yknow, I can base NARF's SSA based stuff off POIT. Basically NARF depends on
POIT but instead uses POIT via an output to SSA-like CL program form and such.
That removes a ton of duplicate code in NARF and uses all the safe checking
done in POIT. The parts of the code generally do the same thing. However POIT
outputs to machine code, although there can be a way to represent POIT
generation calls into NARF's SSA form. So while POIT will be very basic, NARF
would just be an upgrade of it for optimization. This also safes the time of
writing a new decompiler from Java for NARF. The bootstrap VM could also
exploit POIT and be a basic MIPS emulator instead of one which interprets the
byte code. It would still be a bit slow, but everything would be in registers
and such. Also due to the way POIT works, using the same input for a class
should result in the same output binary (except for stuff such as timestamps).

## 04:20

Well this is interesting, I decided on catching the exception then returning
it on failure. Can be used to give a more detailed reason why without throwing
an exception during the call.

## 05:28

It is a cold 28F outside, which means first frost. The stars outside are
really great too. There is a bit solid light which I believe is probably Venus
since it is closer to the horizon and it is morning a bit. Deer are also
creeping around outside also, which was creepy.

## 07:13

It is getting brighter outside. That bright "star" is the sky is still there
and is very likely Venus. There is also bright star down and to the left of
Venus which can be seen, however it is more dim. Those are the only two
"visible" stars however. It is possible that is is Mars or Jupiter since it
appears there is a slight tinge to it. Looking at a night sky map, it is
Jupiter. So this is interesting. If I had a telescope I could attempt looking
at it.

## 07:18

Now Jupiter cannot be seen as there is either no reflected light or it is too
dim to beat the sky. The sun has not risen yet however.

## 07:25

And Venus gets dimmer and dimmer.

## 11:55

Fell asleep for a bit however for the new allocation I can just do a method
call based on the method reference table. This would mean that there would be
an allocation method for each class, but it could work out or go somewhere
generic.

## 13:09

Static equality and hashcode methods for the code reference will help out when
there are multiple implementations which need something easily consistent.

## 22:28

The more stuff on the internet, the less chance you will find what you need.
Thus for Squirrel Digger it is time to delve into my library of books. I
suppose the book ISBN-10 1-55622-911-9 can help me out with my renderer and
such in it.

