# 2015/10/19

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:46

I can see the appear of matrices to 3D programmers. Although my single
function call may be a bit simpler, it is easier to represent matrices and
such in code. 4D matrices can also do translation. So I suppose this book was
handy.

## 02:45

Test projecting points, before I only saw one, now I see more. I should
perhaps use a multiplier pattern of sorts.

## 03:07

Movement appears to be very fast, either that or the scale is low. Well that
was caused by a very high shift amount. The player turning rate is also
extremely high.

## 03:38

Have cubes drawing now but they do not rotate around the viewpoint.

## 12:12

It is probably the near/far plane. Basically I am perspective projection but
my distance from the "eye" from the projection plane is just way back which
makes no difference at all.

## 12:21

I figured it out, I was dividing by the wrong value. I was diving by W instead
Z. W in this case is 1.

## 13:02

Feels like it may be best to remove the side pane since it does get in the way
a bit of the game. Or at least figure out a good way to show information on it
without it being very cramped. I could also just place the information in a
debug dialog of sorts.

## 13:53

I believe the BLR instruction is a kind of macro since I see it nowhere in the
documentation for the CPU.

## 14:36

The next address check is most likely best an object with details of the
target such as its address and the condition for it. That would at least make
things a bit easier.

