# 2016/01/27

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 13:23

I can probably make PackageContents faster by having the cache and entry set
generation handled by the base class and then have a key based initialization
so that keys are known while entries are only created when they are requested.
That should be faster and lighter on memory. However I should get packages
building first.

## 19:18

Had fallen asleep, running into that classpath stuff again where it cannot
find classes.

## 19:20

Well this is odd, in my first stage I have this:

	new URL[]{new URL("file:secclname")},

And this does not look right at all. I doubt this would be the cause of the
issue however, however it is possible because the code does fail here. And
now everything is building. So this was essentially what appears what the
problem was.

## 19:42

The class not found stuff still occurs however.

## 19:55

Well it still happens, however if I were to re-run the code it works fine so
I am not too sure why that occurs.

## 20:09

Appears the output JAR files get lots and lots of contents when they should
not be getting them. I suppose the temporary output is messing up.

## 20:33

I wonder what is with this, everything seems to be just wrong.

## 21:40

This might be why it cannot find anything.

	loadClass(net.multiphasicapps.hairball.build.BuildFailedException, false)

Hairball is never loaded into a HairballClassLoader, so there seems that there
is no actual delegation of sorts done.

## 23:07

It is as if there is no delegation being performed at all.

