# 2015/08/22

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 01:24

I have the base code for writing payloads, I just need to write the payload
output for the ELF format then I can pass it to QEMU via -kernel or load it up
on a CD-RW/DVD-RW. I am rather sleepy now so I can write the ELF writing code
later today. At least with a bootstrap I can run something minimal. Although
it is not much however. It should help to motivate me to work on the compiler
bits so I can actually have Java code being run natively as the kernel.

## 10:52

Now that I am awake after reading some things it is time to write out the
payload with a KBF into an ELF file.

## 12:52

Using OutputStream to write the file is too weak, I need a seekable byte
channel since that will be much better. A FileChannel should do as it could be
resized as needed during generation since there may be some going back and
forth between objects.

## 21:27

Saw the International Space Station again, it was not as bright as it was
yesterday (it was brighter than Venus (how it usually is)). It was also lower
in the sky, only 11 degrees which is not much.

## 21:31

Now I have a basic ELF print out, which is readable by objdump! joy!

    
    
    k8-powerpc-generic_ieee1275_powerpc-narf.elf: ELF 32-bit MSB executable,
    PowerPC or cisco 4500, version 1 (SYSV)
    
    k8-powerpc-generic_ieee1275_powerpc-narf.elf:     file format elf32-powerpc
    k8-powerpc-generic_ieee1275_powerpc-narf.elf
    architecture: powerpc:common, flags 0x00000002:
    EXEC_P
    start address 0x00000000
    
    Sections:
    Idx Name          Size      VMA       LMA       File off  Algn
    SYMBOL TABLE:
    no symbols
    

## 23:02

Somehow my ELF is malformed. I added a new section since it appeared that
having the strings in the first section would cause trouble because it would
mean there would be a NULL shared string index (possibly). However now it
appears that sections are not being placed properly.

## 23:19

Actually I figured it out, I was using the section header names string as the
data buffer for every single section. This is why it appeared as data for the
first NULL section and why all other sections had no remaining data to be
written.

## 23:24

Did it twice actually.

