# 2015/12/01

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:25

New month, my work has slowed down these days. On another note I noticed that
PowerPC's AltiVec has a Java mode. That may be useful. Decided to install
pdfgrep and searching for something unrelated I saw a reference to Java and it
was that. MIPS r5 also has a NAN signalling which disables the stuff if a bit
is enabled, for Java compatibility. I wonder if SPARC's floating point rules
completely match Java seeing that Sun created SPARC and Java.

## 11:21

May as well rewrite some of the architecture stuff and perhaps allow the
package manager access to the contents of packages to read data files from.
That would at least allow for some things. The base hairball packaging system
is slightly a bit ugly however. It does need cleaning up.

## 12:28

A dependency walker would be useful, one which can handle some traversal
flags and such.

## 15:46

Actually, I believe I am going to refactor my room because I have not done so
in awhile. I may also be able to get some more space and have it a bit
organized. It may also permit me to create room for my server rack so it can be
reinstated. However, due to the type of structure I live in, the rack will have
to be limited in weight so the floor does not collapse. I could however get
a large piece of wood so that the weight can get distributed more on a big
piece of wood.

## 22:12

Have not exactly moved anything at all in my room so far.

