# 2015/12/07

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 02:18

I should probably write the difference to the Java coding style guideline.

## 02:20

I could also put documentation in a more standard spot.

## 21:40

Was doing real life stuff today, but I just before woke up from a dream. I met
a bunch of people I have never seen again, Also the sea water level rose about
3mm. There are forests, but although still foresty as not every tree gets
remove, they get changed to windy forests. These windy forests are basically
kind of like parks because there are less trees and leaves to block the wind,
thus why they are "windy". Then near the end of a dream there was this bat
which always happens to bite me in my dreams. Was brown, with red eyes and
bright white teeth. Suppose the bats body was the size of my hand. It tried
to block it but it bit my left index finger. After it bit me it flew away.

Another part of the dream was finding a bunch of old NES stuff, so there was
stuff such as CastleVania and Mario. However the levels were laid out a bit
different.

Hmm, maybe for a logo I can have a vampire bat squirrel. Well, looks like the
internet says that Vampire Squirrels actually exist, however a bunch of other
places debunk it.

Perhaps this bat keeps attacking me in my dreams because it wants to be a logo.

