# 2015/12/20

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 10:38

The Creator CI40 KickStarter is almost over, few days remain. I do not believe
the stretch goal that I desire (the free case) will be reached.

## 10:40

The weather forecasts rain all week, joy.

## 14:06

Poison ivy, poison oak, or friends on my skin looks like a large volcano chain
where the lava is instead blood. And other parts it is like a bubble on a
pizza. Some people are not even allergic to this stuff. However it seems that
my skin cells and such are just suffering death en masse. Luckily it does not
spread.

## 16:13

There is a difference between `replace` and `replaceAll`.

## 21:26

Serialization in Java is messy, the language would have been best without it
at all.

## 21:28

I actually kind of have to go through my entire library. I should at least
for all of my classes use `transient` for fields. I should get into the habit
of doing that now. This way I do not serialize things which should not be
serialized.

## 23:04

The new project builder interface is really nice to use and so far my new code
(although it is being written slowly) is nice also. Before things got a bit
messy but refactoring helps. Of course during the kernel building refactor I
will need to _2015/12/21: I never finished typing this in_.

