# 2015/12/21

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 09:41

I had this _Star Trek: Voyager_ dream. The plot was basically, the away team
with the captain beam down to surface in a wooded area and walk to a place
because it has shielding. Seven of Nine picks up things there which have a
material to do things to Borg drones, but they do not know it yet. They beam up
to the ship and Seven of Nine does not go up with them, she instead gets beamed
to an alternate reality alone into a different Voyager. This one a bit more
depressing and with more alien crew members. The previous alliance attempt
with the Borg failed which caused lots of damage to the ship and a loss of
a portion of the crew. In the alternate Voyager the doctor was never killed at
the start so the holographic doctor was never activated. Was interesting.

## 11:33

Going to have the configuration system have the ability to check if the actual
dynamic recompiler is supported for a given CPU configuration. This way there
can be multiple dynamic recompilers with varying levels of support. So for
example, say there are two recompilers for PowerPC. POIT supports many
configurations as a base system while another only supports for example
64-bit. On top of that I should have a support level enumeration instead of
just a plain boolean value.

## 14:57

POIT fails to build because of a code change, however in the configuring system
it tries to build POIT so far about three times. The many calls are made
because since the binary is not built, it has to build it to see if it is
compatible. However the multiple build attempts are a bit bad. So what I must
do is have a failed build flag set in the package status so that it does not
constantly try building failed packages.

## 15:26

I must when checking to see if something is supported is to load the helper
package too for the compiler. POIT just exists in a base package with nothing
at all, so checking if it supports PowerPC will fail.

## 21:20

I might just not have to use a forked setup for the building and instead just
have it be a part of the hairball default one.

## 21:25

Going to need to move the dyna rec configuration instead to the machine and
then just have a base for a CPU.

## 21:28

I wonder if the G4 actually supports little endian. There is an option in the
boot loader but I would not want to risk the potential to brick my laptop by
setting the flag.

## 21:50

Going to need a potential base config inherit handler and such for extra
things which may be inherited for example.

## 21:53

However, it is not known whether or not an inherited set is to be removed or
added. So the current replacement policy works best for this case, although it
can remove previously set values.

## 22:08

Virtual configurations will be very useful.

## 22:10

I believe the base configuration is mostly complete now, just now need to go
into building the actual kernel and such with it.

## 22:28

I am refactoring a bunch of my stuff but the stuff I am refactoring so far
was added before the build system was actually really around (sort of), but now
that I know what to do best I can do it. So I suppose this is another rewrite
of sorts. However what I have now is very clean and I really like it compared
to before. Using this new stuff will be far easier than before however and it
will not be a huge mess either. The hairball refactor was long overdue though
since parts of it I sort of rewrote as a tack on. The refactored code is also
much much smaller too.

