# 2015/12/04

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 01:26

Going to have to add some severe TODOs in my code generator for volatile,
atomic, etc. memory based reads. Will also need to handle long/double
atomicity for 32-bit systems where high/low values are not atomic. This only
has to be done via accessing memory anywhere that is not the stack.

## 02:53

I am just going by JAR and source code file times, right now I have the
following:

	Jar 1449127370000
	Src 1446848209220

This tells me that the JAR is newer than the source. This should be faster but
slightly less reliable than the `.times` method while not having such a file
in the JAR.

## 02:57

It is possible though that a file system does not support modification times
and instead just uses creation time as a kind of fallback

## 03:22

I have a SLA battery which was around 8V or 9V, attaching the charger does
nothing so I decided to jump the battery from a fully charged one and now the
charger likes charging it. I shall let it alone for some hours then check the
voltage to see if the battery has recovered. Right now I see the charger's
capacity meter dropping and the charge light is solid where on nearly full
batteries it just blinks rapidly. Hopefully there are no dead cells. This is
a true sign inverter which I do not really use compared to my modified sine
one. I would like to use it, but I am not sure that it will keep my battery
topped off as I desire. It has a remote control protocol that I partially
reverse engineered in the past, just the cables for it I have not really
figured out since it uses serial but has a phone jack instead. I could
alternatively just connect it to an Arduino since it pretty much uses only
3 pins, TX, RX, and GND. I just hope my batteries are not dead.

## 03:28

On the otherhand, hopefully checking the creation time too will be a nice fall
back. I wonder what to do if the system has no real concept of stored time such
as when there is no RTC.

## 23:55

I should update the templates to 2016.

