# 2018/12/01

## 00:38

It is now December!

## 09:53

One optimization I can do I guess which probably will not work is to have a
shorthand error string. I do sometimes wonder if all of the error strings will
take up too much memory. But if they do I can manage that with a special
method and such that can handle things.

## 11:06

This text placement code is pretty complex. I should probably do a rewrite of
it and have it logically done on draw lines internally rather than individual
characters. I think that would probably be easier to handle as well. At that
point alignment would be cheap because it operates on an entire junk. The
only trouble would be justification which will have to spread the characters
out a bunch. But even then it would be simpler. So I would say logical lines
are the best. It would also probably be easier to understand as well.

## 11:43

Okay! I figured out how to handle LTR and RTL! I will use the line logic
because that makes it easier. The line logic simplifies everything pretty much
but anyway this is how it goes: When in LTR mode the insertion index of where
a character is placed in a line is always at the end of the line. However for
RTL, the insertion index is not adjusted at all. So if a unicode indicator
says we should switch to RTL we can handle that by just saying: do not
increment the index anymore. Going back to LTR mode will just mean setting
the insertion index at the current end of the line. It should work pretty
much. Also, doing it by line as before just makes center and right alignment
a single operation rather than messing with each character. So line based
handling is completely a win.

## 12:13

I think before I refactor the text drawing code to operate in logical lines
I will get characters drawing first. I think that would be amazing for the
most part.

## 13:37

Okay so, the basic sequence stuff for fonts and things should be an abstract
class instead of an interface. It is being used like an abstract class plus
abstract classes are faster potentially.

## 14:23

I believe some of the drawing stuff is wrong if the pitch is off.

## 15:05

Did some debugging of my font and monospace fonts are not monospace! So this
definitely needs some fixing.
