# 2019/06/30

## 07:31

I want a service to wrap around a documentation tool so that way I have
that and it is not something messy like Sun's JavaDoc stuff.

## 08:18

Definitely have this idea of completely wrapping the ugly documentation
interface with a much nicer and cleaner one.

## 14:16

Would be useful if SummerCoat had profiling in it.

## 15:12

Pretty sure I want SummerCoat's running stuff to be in the actual VM stuff
now rather than later.

## 15:49

Tracking how long system calls take is cool.

## 15:50

Oh wow, `BootLibrary.init()` is causing all the libraries to be read and such
so that definitely is important!

## 18:49

Okay so `GameCanvas` is not actually doing any drawing on screen...

## 18:55

Also `Image.getGraphics()` completely ignores alpha channel.

## 19:46

So the 14th character in the class name is getting chopped off somehow? Can be
seen in SpringCoat:

 * `("java.util.PopertyPermission" "net.multiphasicapps.util.datadeque.bl`
 * `java.util.ProertyPermission`

But these should actually be at the same point but they are not. So it is not
the class stuff it is just the string.

## 20:02

They come from TODO notes.

## 20:03

Actually it probably is `PrintStream` since I did that recently.

## 20:04

There is a threshold of 90 and the cut off on the line is exactly at 90 always
so this means something in `PrintStream` is chopping something off.

## 20:07

And fixed it, the at position was not being stored in a flush.

## 20:47

Seems a static constructor in DoomRPG is returning `null` which is not a
thing it should do.

## 20:50

And the code it uses is messing with `microedition.locale` which is not
set in Java SE. But also probably it is not able to find a resource that
the game needs as well.

## 20:52

I cannot check it in SpringCoat because it is so slow.
