# 2016/03/22

## 00:43

And the build system is complete. I will have to get it running on Windows and
write a batch script for that either before I sleep or after I awaken.

## 00:48

And I wrote up a shell script, do not know if it works however.

## 00:53

And the script works in Wine, I lack a real Windows system however so I cannot
truly see if it works in Windows. However Wine generally is good enough.

## 13:04

Now that a new build system is in place and it works in Linux and Windows, I
can continue with writing NARF the compact intermediate language code.

## 13:10

For feasability and speed, programs will be split into chunks. Essentially
if instructions are to be removed from a program, it would be a bit costly to
move all the data down, especially if you have for example a 10MHz computer
running the VM. So basically, programs will be split into chunks. So for
example when deleting instructions (bytes) instead of shifting everything
following down a byte, only the stuff in the current chunk has to be shifted
down. Insertion is the same way. When inserting bytes, if there is room in
the chunk then bytes are moved up and the bytes placed. However say in the
middle of a program a byte must be inserted. Normally everything would have to
be moved over. However with chunking, the chunk can be split in half, with
the bytes following to be placed in a new chunk. If a write is at the barrier
of a chunk and insertion is performed, then a new chunk can just be written.
So in short, this is a buffer of bytes which is dynamically sized and is able
to efficiently for the most part delete and remove bytes. This is needed
because when optimizations are perform, single bytes may be inserted and
removed and in large program and slow systems, moving all those bytes will be
very costly.

## 13:22

For address lookup, I need to keep a sorted list and tree list structure. So
if one wants to read byte 42 then it would check the current buffer size, then
go down a sorted list as if it were a binary tree. If the buffer is not of a
power of two size, then I can just split down the middle and such.

