# 2018/09/09

## 17:51

I have been working on SquirrelJME throughout the day, so that is not bad.
Right now my current hurdle is `invokespecial`, which is a bit complex.

## 18:18

Using deduction to determine how to handle `invokespecial`. Okay so since
Java 1.1 (released 02/1997) the compiler always set `SUPER`, so the method
that is directly specified is never called it instead uses the alternative
lookup. So let me see when J2ME came out.

## 18:21

JSR030 is 05/2000, drafted in 08/1999. This means the latest Java release at
the time was Java 1.2 which was released 12/1998. Also the _J2_ in _J2ME_
stands for Java 2, which is Java 1.2. So I think at this point, if the super
flag is not set then it sucks to be you.

## 18:29

Looking through the ancient specification, `main` is handled and used so
that is something. At least now I have actual backing for it.

## 18:33

Confirmed that CLDC 1.0 uses a Java 1.2 VM.

## 18:41

Okay so from this point, I am going to declare that `SUPER` is always set no
matter what.

## 21:40

I am definitely going to need a refactor of the thread worker because it is
getting quite ugly!

## 21:47

Huh, for some reason `Object` cannot have final fields and they cannot be
assigned a value in the compiler at all.

## 21:54

The compiler does not allow final fields to be set for `Object` in its
constructor. In fact if final fields are initialized at run-time the compiler
does not generate any code for the constructor. So I will need to remember
this interesting detail.

## 22:57

For the Lex redesign and logos, I would like to credit the artist for their
work:

 * Kat@CMYKat Designs & Illustrations
 * Kat Adam-MacEwen
 * <www.cmykat-designs.com>

The logo is awesome so far and Lex is coming along quite cutely, I am very
excited.
