# 2017/01/27

## 08:59

Cannot find a name for the sub-module I plan to write. This will contain stuff
such as `ExecutableClass` and `ContextClass`. These will be used at compile
and run time.

## 09:12

Thinking about it, the kernel contains the support for running classes so this
means that _executable-runtime_ is not needed.

## 14:39

I wonder if I should rewrite the JIT. The way it was written was for the old
code, but the iteration is still nice. But maybe what I need to do is cut it
down a bit. There are triplets, outputs, and configurations. Perhaps that is
just too much to have in it. Most of it is base work, and then there are the
namespaces too. I suppose the JIT in this case would just be a helper bridge
between the class format decoder and executable output code itself. Maybe not
a complete rewrite but a large simplification. Also currently the class
format code is generally pass to the JIT output and such. Maybe in this case
I can do OO in layer it. This would allow me to rewrite the class format code
or rely on other things instead. But that might not even be needed.

## 14:44

Definitely one thing that is convoluted and pretty messy to use is the triplet
and configuration system. I know an alternative that is more rigid but would
be simpler to implement and would potentially be less intensive to write. The
output by the JIT would be more direct.

## 14:55

One thing though is stuff such as fields and such.

## 15:01

So I might just get rid of namespaces or similar, will need to think about
how to proceed and make things better.
