# 2014/07/02

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

Slight changes, I renamed wsConfirm to wsFinal which will be in finish()
rather than set(). This may mean late checking for errors, because everything
inside will be checked first.

My changes so far seem to be working well, it is not that boilerplatey and not
that ugly.

I believe what I will need to do instead of kclassdump is to make a javadoc
which can do more than Java source files by using an extended option to
represent similar input to kclassdump. To just print class information then
can use a standard doclet which outputs a specific format similar to
kclassdump. This way I will not be writing my own javadoc and kclassdump which
do very similar things.

I will do the same thing for the intended kclasscompile in that anything I
would have added there will end up in javac instead.

I should also just write the build system first so that compiling things is
much simpler rather than continuing to hack my build scripts.

Hairball scripts will be very similar to Java in that they look nearly the
same except for a few minor differences. One major difference is that they
will be highly interpretive similar to make files but hopefully not as ugly.
It will not have all the features of Java and will be very specific to the
purpose of compiling the kernel. It will use my existing tokenizer to simplify
the operation of executing the scripts. It will also not support generics as
there is no need for the build system to use such a thing.

