# 2015/01/28

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 01:52

I have this idea for another idea game I can make as an example, titled "Infix
Desolution" which would be an RPG. The plot centers around generic heroes
characters going off to save their world which is being attacked by a powerful
enemy force that bends the will of the world to his/her own pleasure. Halfway
they spot a neutral optimistic who joins their party, speaking not and showing
no interest in the turn of things whether for good or bad. That said person is
the creator of the "world" and knows it is just a computer simulation that he
has created. Since it is a purely virtual aspect he cares not for the actions
as they have no bearing on his reality. However the simulated peoples of the
world despite being purely virtual have the spark of conciousness so it is not
as these are all scripted characters with no choice. This is how the big bad
has come to destructive power since he also finds it as pointless and deems to
end the simulation. However, the creator realizes the plea of the people
inside of it and decides to take a more forward stance in taking action to
clear things. However since the program has developed in unanticipated ways
changing the source would change it forever, which is why he cannot cheat his
way out of it.

## 03:56

I have this feeling right now, where the code I write flows out like an
endless river. Seems like it costs it nothing to me.

## 05:04

I will need to make the fields and methods a map of name/desc keys and the
actual assignment so requesting such things is faster.

