# 2015/06/01

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 12:20

A new month. Now let us see what was done this month. I do know that dynamic
recompilation into machine code has not been done. Near the end of this month
I completely rewrote hairball, now it is much cleaner and much leaner. It is
still incomplete however. At the start of the month I was finishing up the
rewrite of the Java NARF decoder and such. Then I started writing a Forth
interpreter for about two days, but decided to not write or use it for certain
things. Made a base debugger interface which required some implementation of
things and a few fixes. I added an incomplete common assembler intrerface for
assembling assembly. Then my hairball rewrite persisted for about a week. I
also changed some of my major mass commits to their own individual user
despite fossil export not using those changes. Then the kernel building system
was switched to configurations since those are easier to manage and to change.

## 12:32

The next thing to move onto is the compiler templates so the configuration may
select the compiler to use.

## 14:33

So now that I have a conifgurable setting to choose the target machine and the
compiler to use, I can get back to native code generation. I just need to
setup the steps to do that correctly.

## 18:26

I am going to require a dialect of C if I want interface with the main machine
without requiring pure assembly. The base bootstrapper would then require C,
but with my own compiler it can compile it to native code as needed. No C
library is required however and would not make much sense.

## 21:20

A generic C compiler interface would be best, one that could easilty be
changed to support differing aspects.

