# 2015/06/06

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:12

Actually what I can do is split off my C preprocessor and then finish it since
not much left is done. I can modify the interfaces a bit and improve it so
that preprocessor handling is much neater. This way, my work during the past
week is not wasted. Which is a good thing. I just need to split it off from
the C compiler bit. Then I can use the C preprocessor as a sort of high-level
assembly kind of thing. After the preprocessor is finished and working I can
then work on the assembler itself. The C preprocessor has some power to it so
my code reduction can work out without needing to invent a new language for
high level assembly.

## 17:54

The preprocessor probably does not need JavaFileObjects since a file manager
is not used.

## 18:07

It would probably be more efficient to attempt translating an entire file at
once rather than iterating through it token by token as it comes along. The
possibility of failure requires the streams to be closed.

## 19:32

Phase four is really really complex. It is also very much munged into a single
class also. What I need to do is move the preprocessing state out of that
class into a sort of POJO struct. Then for stuff like preprocessor directives
I can have an enumeration instead.

## 19:39

I can also have a special #pragma callback handler, if needed.

## 19:51

Phase four would probably be best rewritten from scratch and done better. The
only real trouble I would have to introduce some more changes with would be
_Pragma, but I can just run that through the upper stages which go up to phase
3. Another thing is tokens in #include statements for replacement. That means
for tokenization of header names I have to include the rest also. It would
probably be best then to make it so that the special include directive is only
detected rather than strings also.

