# 2015/06/17

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 09:39

Now to continue work on my new KBF code, which the format uses a table of
contents to describe data.

## 09:46

In the normal loader at least, using a seeking capability I can have the KBF
header be at a specific offset. I would say every 512 bytes a KBF could be
checked. This could be done up to 8 times or more in the future. This would
permit extra bits to be at the start of a KBF file. That would say be needed
for the kernel where the KBF could be slapped onto an ELF or PE payload.

## 10:36

One thing I am not going to remove is my FormJavaType stuff, along with the
generic signature things. I worked hard on that and it reads descriptors
rather nicely.

## 11:43

Decided on using sshfs so I can develop with two laptops at the same time as I
write this code. I wonder if it will speed me up or slow me down.

## 15:00

Does not make much of a difference, have to move over physically to reach.

## 15:41

The flags for fields and methods, do not need to have table of content entries
for them since they are really simple. However the flags differ based on the
type of thing it is.

## 20:38

Feels like I am rewriting the class loading code over and over again. I would
have to say that the Java constant pool is terrible.

## 23:05

For the constant pool I can have entries be just that.

