# 2015/06/20

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 08:41

I have awaken, and it rains.

## 08:59

Class information can store annotations, fields and methods can be structures
themselves which declare things.

## 15:07

Using a filesystem view for maps is going to be bad. That view is highly tied
into File which is not very extendable.

## 17:44

However, if there were a way to have say a tab which shows either the files on
the disk or internal files in the JAR. Well, JFileChooser can be embedded into
a panel, so I could carve out a custom dialog of sorts.

## 18:34

Aha! With this new dialog I can have internal maps, ones on the disk, and
random maps. So all of the expected map types can work out.

## 20:29

For random map generation, the only major things affecting the major layout of
the map will be player positions and the random seed. Those mentioned will
affect the terrain that is placed. Each map will be divided into segments
which represent a "base". Expansions value will change how many of those non-
main bases will have resources in them. Islands will determine how those
segments connect to each other (none being no connections, thus no islands)
while lots will enforce that mains are never connected. Resources will just
modify the amount of resources available to mains and expansions. Setting
resources to none will result in no resources being available.

## 20:58

I have not tested my stuff in Wine in awhile, I wonder if it all still works
good.

## 21:18

And it works the same as it does on Linux, and that makes Java awesome.

