# 2015/05/28

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 01:20

The configuration system should not be elaborate but simple. As I have stated
yesterday, there are no true constants in Java as they are all dynamically
calculated. Also static stuff just does not make sense in Java (such as a
limit on the number of maximum CPUs, of which on Linux is probably a #define
constant). On another topic, the Java RMI code is part of profile1 and my OS
defined RMI interfaces must work with profile1. For calls and such I will
probably use a memory based system for calls back and forth between userspace
and the kernel, possibly for some other processes also. There would also not
be a need for a restrictive limitation such as extending Remote and requiring
everything throw an annoying checked RemoteException.

## 05:16

Seems my project builder does not include dependencies of things which are
already built.

## 06:19

Package builder had some dependency logic issues.

## 15:33

The value class will not serve much purpose because I can use immutable
translation systems so to speak.

## 21:19

CPU options in the template I was thinking it could use the real options used
for them, however that would recompiler compiling the architecture definitions
and then obtaining the options for them. Therefor, they would best be kept as
strings.

## 21:52

I should probably change mass imports to a new user that is not me, so that my
own results as the sole author are not skewed when a script does virtually all
of the writing.

## 22:57

Before, I was messing with colors and that screwed everything up, however I am
just going to use usernames only.

