# 2015/05/16

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 04:11

Using FileSystemView is going to be too convoluted, so I am just going to add
another menu entry which would be capable of loading an entry from an already
loaded JAR files.

## 05:41

My code so far runs fine still in Windows (at least in Wine) with zero
changes, the joys of Java.

## 05:52

Adding support for reading field signatures was easier than I thought.

## 06:13

TypeArgument::__readFragment() has some kind of issue where
TypeArguments::__readFragment() causes an infinite loop when there are actual
arguments.

    
    
    FormSignature$TypeArguments.__readFragment(FormSignature.java:1150)
    FormSignature$ClassType.__readFragment(FormSignature.java:366)
    FormSignature$ReferenceType.__readFragment(FormSignature.java:859)
    FormSignature$ReferenceType.lambda$of$6(FormSignature.java:830)
    FormSignature$ReferenceType$$Lambda$75/2564543696.apply(Unknown Source)
    FormJavaType$YMap.of(FormJavaType.java:948)
    FormSignature$ReferenceType.of(FormSignature.java:827)
    FormSignature$Field.(FormSignature.java:406)
    FormSignature$Field$$Lambda$74/2564469288.apply(Unknown Source)
    

## 06:25

Was caused by `__cb.get(0);` which should be instead `__cb.get();`.

## 06:26

I am rather tired now though, but reading of the exceptions attribute has to
be handled to at least load HairballLauncher.

## 16:39

I believe I will need a much nicer way to show class data with fancy controls
and such. Perhaps with headers and then specific data based on the kind
something is, inside of a giant scroll pane that goes vertical. That will at
least enable me add more graphical stuff to represent how classes are. The
JTable works for mass information but it lacks the power I need for displaying
the data.

## 21:57

Need to handle reading in TypeParameters now for the ConstantPool class.

