# 2016/07/20

## 10:22

I suppose for simplicity I will just force the data descriptor to exist for
uncompressed data, otherwise it will be extremely difficult to detect the end
of the stream.

## 11:44

In the future I will need to refactor the blocked base ZIP files.

## 12:40

I have an infinite loop somewhere.

## 13:34

Appears the CRC is not correct.

## 14:00

The namespace headers and sources are missing.

## 14:30

And I fixed that, although it appears everything that is written is in
error. However the output ZIP is written and it does contain the basic files.
So really all I need to for the C code is to actually write it now.

## 14:34

So now I can test the C language output. Looking at it the resources are
heavily undersized (they are given a size of 1). The class externs all refer
to just the namespace and have no actual class details. I need to also
implement string data writing and putting those externs somewhere.

## 15:50

Now I have compilable C code, although more stuff needs to be put into it for
it to be more useful. Right now the file is 123KiB. It contains quite a number
of symbols also.

## 23:15

Switched to `uxterm`, it definitely much faster than my previous terminal which
was quite slow. Hopefully with a new terminal, I can work on things much
easier now since before I was basically waiting for my terminal to draw the
output. One thing I must get used to however, is the lack of tabs. However
there is screen with some initial discomfort.

## 23:42

One thing to do tomorrow would be to create resource structure and associate
their data with them. Then after that I can ignore debugging them for the most
part.

