# 2018/03/15

## 12:01

Okay so the LCDUI code is going to be changed up a bit again to where the
classes which provide the service and those that will connect to it are in
the same project. This makes it simple as there will be things which will
be needed for things to be implemented accordingly. When it comes to actual
framebuffer stuff, the client will initialize a byte array which will then
be mapped to the server that way the client has the speed when it comes to
drawing. The server will just access the client byte array as needed.

## 12:03

Also, it would help if I looked up that Mode 7 video since it has simple
formulas for translations that I can use for flipping and rotation which
will be very useful to say the least. I also probably need to simplify the
pixel array operations and such too so that way I can have things which
are backed by say byte or short arrays for different color spaces. Will
also need a way to handle color palettes too for indexed color spaces. So
then the thing is, do I have RGB 8-bit and 16-bit values or force them to
be palette values? It might be easier to use a palette so that blending
could be cached potentially although there could be slowdown. Blending
might actually be slower for 8-bit palettes than RGB ones.

## 12:45

I have work so I cannot really do anything now.

## 13:14

For Squirrel Quarrel I have some things which will make the game easier to
play and simpler to implement too:

 * Automatic resource gathering.
   * It is really a pain to tell workers to gather resources.
   * Use the most optimal resource gathering so it is not a hassle.
 * Allow placement of buildings on units.
   * It would require a bunch of collision checks to see if a building can
     be placed somewhere, just basic terrain and routable checks can be
     done.
   * Units that are underneath will just move out of the way.
   * Certain units will trigger specific actions:
     * Underground bombs will detonate and damage anything nearby likely
       taking the building that was about to be constructed with it.
     * Burrowed units will unburrow and move out of the way.
   * In busy areas it would be easier to construct because sometimes it is
     impossible to build structures where they are needed because your own
     units are in the way.
   * Simplifies the AI because it will not need to be told to move units out
     of the way for construction.

## 22:40

Okay so rotated graphics and otherwise will just be affine transformations and
such, either possibly floating point and then additionally fixed point as
needed.
