# 2018/03/29

## 19:46

I believe I will take a break on forms and canvases and work on forms since
that is a rather important part. Those might just be simpler to implement for
the most part. Then when I can do `CustomItem` I can handle canvases at the
same time. Definitely though one thing I need before that are tabbed panes
since I do want to test multiple things. `TabbedPane` only supports `Form`
and `List` sadly, although it would have been cool if the other things
were supported. But it is what it is. I will work on the documentation for
tabbed panes first.

## 19:59

Okay so `Item` and `Displayable` have commands in common, so those will be
put in the base class of `__Widget__` since it maeks it much easier to handle
and have less duplicate code between the two. There just needs super calls.

## 20:15

I should actually start at the base class which is `Displayable` and implement
all of that accordingly.

## 20:32

Menus are quite simple though and could potentially be implemented next along
with support for commands and such.

## 20:50

It would be good if I could track progress via the use of a TODO command
tracker of sorts, maybe even generate a graph or CSV of it. I think it could
be used to keep track of things that were implemented and progress and such.

## 22:48

I am so glad I did UUIDs early on so I can keep track of how projects change
over time, that way I can have a most consistent TODO progression of sorts. So
that is useful for me since I rarely would ever change a UUID.
