# 2016/08/07

## 14:04

One thing to consider is locating the entry method and using that as the ELF's
entry point. The ELF should be very easy to generate so to speak.

## 14:05

One issue with the ELF linker is that I need to know the size of the blobs
being written to write the ELF header information. I really just need a single
load address and such. I can malloc and setup my own stack.

## 14:33

The thing is that the string table is not known until after the end. Also
having scanning code to check every method to see if it is the entry point
would be very slow. So I suppose for the ELF that it would just load all of
the binary data before placing it into memory.

## 14:54

Specials methods can be rewritten using special interfaces and such, but the
rewrites could be ignored and such.

## 16:50

One thing I need to consider is that binaries which are output are going to
need attributes such as the executable bit or otherwise. Another thing that
would be needed is that basic assets would need to be potentially line
translated (so that the repository default `\n` becomes `\r\n` for Windows
and DOS). So the ZIP stream writer will need to handle these cases so that
the ZIPs are correctly used on the given systems. This also means for systems
such as Mac OS X, that I will need to create my own `__MACOSX` files.

## 17:02

The ZIP writer code should also be able to handle dates and such. Then also
the ZIP reader should also handle such things too. Then this way things are
better so to speak. The extra attributes could be used in the emulator since
files will rely on being executable for example.

## 17:11

Looks like ZIP does not have any access mode information nor symbolic link.
These appear as extensions in Info-ZIPs extra block, so I should use those
also and support such things. Looks like I will want to use
"ASi Unix Extra Field" which has everything I need.

## 21:25

I would probably rather have actual output right now, so I can just make a
ticket for it and such. In fact, anything I need to TODO in general can just
get a ticket. Fossil has tickets, may as well use them.

