# 2018/11/10

## 06:34

Going to write the profiler, this will be important to have because it will
mean that I will be able to find all the slow code and such. I could actually
use it to profile and optimize the code and find the slow spots. I cannot
really use VisualVM on SpringCoat itself because it is a VM and nothing runs
in the host, but I can generate VisualVM snapshots.

## 06:39

I need to commonize the compression algorithm code away from the ZIP code and
instead put it in the IO code.

## 07:05

Think I should normalize errors since things have been moved around.

## 07:41

I am going to need to write a compression algorithm but it should not be too
bad and such. I can write a rather poor one that just gets it done then
improve it later on in the future. Only thing that would probably be fun to
mess with is the sliding window. I do want it to be fast but the best
compression is not always the best.

## 10:10

Looking through a PDF of the Encyclopedia Britannica and it is 1100 pages long
so that will be fun. Doing binary search through it.

## 10:13

This is a really long description of Squirrel but it will work.

## 11:01

Took awhile to write, but it will be a nice set of sample text to test
compression and such on.

## 14:55

Going to make the zip writer not thread safe.

## 15:08

This is odd, I am using the same stream writing code but it fails because it
says the previous entry has not been closed. There has been no previous
entry at all it seems in a group.

## 15:23

So my ZIP code is broken if I change the compression type and I have no idea
why.

## 15:24

Okay the real manifest is written first.

## 15:33

I am pretty sure it is not working because I am actually using a stream
that handles compression and it might not be the wrapped stream. Need to
see how this works. Oh yeah, just thought about it. The deflation stream
does not call close in its close.
