# 2016/07/09

## 14:57

Since I have namespaces, objects and resources when writing to C must be
prefixed by the namespace. However for namespace class exportation, I will
need to have it where I can declare the classes which are in the specified
namespace for global linkage. So essentially there will be a gigantic array
of classes in the given namespace. Then references to these classes are bound
by these namespace lists. Built-in namespaces would be included in an internal
list which then points to the namespace structure data.

## 17:38

A problem with TAR is that I need to know the size of the file before I can
write it. I may have to instead use streamed ZIP files.

## 17:43

So basically this will be the ZIP file format then, since TAR would not work.
At least for source code, I would not need permissions or execute bits set.
However, my project called `zip-compression` would better be called `zip-file`
instead. Then I can make a new project which is able to write ZIP files. Since
I do not have any compression currently, I can always add that later.

## 17:46

Actually it might be best if it were to become `zip-reader-block` for block
based reading of ZIP files. Another variant could be `zip-reader-stream` for
stream based reading. At least for uncompressed streamed data with no known
size, a valid header detected along with a sane size and CRC would determine
if data just blindly matches the ZIP data (say a stored ZIP within a ZIP) that
precedes it. That could be used to determine when an uncompressed streamed
entry with unknown initail size is used.

## 17:55

Personally, I wonder if the supporting 64-bit ZIP files is worth it. Generally
for Java ME I would only ever use 32-bit ZIPs. Supporting entries that are
very large or ZIPs with lots of files would be more sane than not supporting
it. However, I suppose initially I should have a means where I can read/write
64-bit ZIPs but not yet support it for example.

## 17:59

I would suppose that the intended targets for Java ME and SquirrelJME in
general, there would really be no need to support 64-bit ZIP files.

## 18:57

Generally my code itself would likely never operate with very gigantic files.
Also lightening up the code would simplify things. Also one thing to consider
is to remove the data pipe code and just have the deflate decompression be an
input stream of sorts.

