# 2016/07/24

## 11:33

The standard methods could add system properties, then I can have an adding of
standard system properties.

## 11:41

This can also be used to determine which profiles are set and packages that
are available. I just need a way to back into the package list and have it so
that properties can properly be mapped and such.

## 18:00

Slow day today, however now I need to work on the emulator/interpreter engine.
Then once the stuff can be loaded and initialized I can continue with the JIT
output. Then parse that as I go along. I would suppose that the binary would
use the standard Java stuff (aka `-jar` and `-D`) otherwise input arguments
would be completely ignored. Since you cannot run individual classes anyway,
`-jar` would be the way to go. I would suppose this would be passed to the
launcher which initially starts, then that would start the actual program
passed in the command line. I would have to parse the midlet information and
handle it that way. But initially I just want the initial JVM to print a very
basic message. Once it prints out that message I will create a video alpha
video. At that point, the main library can be implemented and such.

## 19:25

All emulators should be capable of being used for TAS of games which would be
handy for debugging. As such, there should be a unified input system from
the console for example and unified output. There should be an emulation
core which can be used to give unknowns to the target and be used for resuming
previous recording sessions.

