# NanoCoat Layout

This document specifies the layout of a NanoCoat Zip which contains
sources and tables for merging and otherwise. NanoCoat is built on top
of tables which are used to create the most compact possible output
executable which removes any and all duplicates. As such, the structure
is akin to a `Map` of source code and constants.

## Libraries

Libraries are Jars which have been run through the NanoCoat AOT Compiler
which outputs to tables and C source code.

 * `shared/` -- Fragments and otherwise which are shared across different
   ROMs and libraries. All sources within are identified by their fingerprint.
   On merging the content of the individual files should be exactly the same.
   * `char/` -- Strings which are referred to by other parts of the code.
   * `code/` -- Source code, based on the code fingerprint and is
     agnostic of the actual method the code belongs to. For example
     this may contain a source code file called `code_deadbeef.c` where
     `deadbeef` is the code fragment identifier.
   * `ints/` -- Class interface lists.
   * `lncl/` -- Linkages for `Class` references.
   * `lnfa/` -- Linkages for field access.
   * `lnmi/` -- Linkages for method invocations.
   * `lnst/` -- Linkages for `String` references.
   * `lnvd/` -- Linkages for `double` values.
   * `lnvf/` -- Linkages for `float` values.
   * `lnvi/` -- Linkages for `int` values.
   * `lnvj/` -- Linkages for `long` values.
   * `rsrc/` -- Jar resources, unlikely these are duplicated but in the event
     they are, this will be handled accordingly.
   * `tyfi/` -- Field type information.
   * `tyme/` -- Method type information.
   * `valn/` -- Locals/Stack variable limit tables.
 * `lib/` -- Library code root.
   * `$CLUTTER_LEVEL/` -- The clutter level of the library.
     * `$SOURCE_SET/` -- The source set for the library, will be one of
       _main_, _test_, or _testFixtures_. 
       * `$MODULE_NAME/` -- The name of the library module, for example this
         will be _cldc-compact_.
         * `classes/` -- Classes within the library
           * `$CLASS.c` -- Individual class information files, these do not
             contain any code but instead link to shared fragments.
         * `$MODULE_NAME.c` -- Module library information file.
         * `CMakeLists.txt` -- CMake Build file for the library.

## ROMs

ROMs are a collection of libraries, which their file structure layout
is the same as libraries however they have been flattened from multiple
libraries into a single set of files.

 * `rom/` -- ROM code root.
   * `$CLUTTER_LEVEL/` -- The name of the ROM, which is the clutter level. 
     * `$SOURCE_SET/` -- The ROM source set, will be one of _main_, _test_,
       or _testFixtures_. 
       * `$SOURCE_SET.c` -- ROM information source.
       * `CMakeLists.txt` -- CMake Build file for the ROM. 
