# SummerCoat ROM Usage

This is a ROM file which must be used with SummerCoat or RatufaCoat for it to
function properly. The instruction vary depending on the platform you are
using.

## RetroArch (RatufaCoat)

Place `squirreljme.sqc` into your RetroArch `system` directory. You can
determine where this directory is by going to _Settings_ - _Directory_ -
_System/BIOS_.

### Overlay

It is highly recommended to use the _flip phone_ overlay in SquirrelJME, you
can set it by going to _Main Menu_ - _Quick Menu_ - _Onscreen Overlay_ -
_Overlay Preset_. Then choose _gamepads_ / _flip\_phone_ / _flip\_phone.cfg_.

If you do not see the overlay, you will have to update your overlays by
going to _Main Menu_ - _Online Updater_ and then selecting _Update Overlays_.

### Controls

A listing of dial-pad buttons to the RetroPad controller:

 * `Soft 1` -- `Select`
 * `Soft 2` -- `Start`
 * `1 Voicemail (Game A)` -- `X (Up)`
 * `2 ABC (Game Up)` -- `D-Pad Up`
 * `3 DEF (Game B)` -- `A (Right)`
 * `4 GHI (Game Left)` -- `D-Pad Left`
 * `5 JKL (Game Fire/Select)` -- `L2`
 * `6 MNO (Game Right)` -- `D-Pad Right`
 * `7 PQRS (Game C)` -- `Y (Left)`
 * `8 TUV (Game Down)` -- `D-Pad Down`
 * `9 WXYZ (Game D)` -- `B (Down)`
 * `Star (Shift)` -- `L`
 * `0 Operator (Plus)` -- `R2`
 * `Pound (Space)` -- `R`

## SummerCoat

Place `squirreljme.sqc` anywhere as needed. When launching the virtual machine
define the property `cc.squirreljme.romfile` and set it to the path to the
ROM file (an example would be `-Dcc.squirreljme.romfile=squirreljme.sqc`).

### Controls

SummerCoat uses the following mapping to the dial-pad:

 * `Soft 1` -- `F1`
 * `Soft 2` -- `F2`
 * `1 Voicemail (Game A)` -- `Q`
 * `2 ABC (Game Up)` -- `W`
 * `3 DEF (Game B)` -- `E`
 * `4 GHI (Game Left)` -- `A`
 * `5 JKL (Game Fire/Select)` -- `S`
 * `6 MNO (Game Right)` -- `D`
 * `7 PQRS (Game C)` -- `Z`
 * `8 TUV (Game Down)` -- `X`
 * `9 WXYZ (Game D)` -- `C`
 * `Star (Shift)` -- `V`
 * `0 Operator (Plus)` -- `B`
 * `Pound (Space)` -- `N`

## Standard C (RatufaCoat)

Place `squirreljme.sqc` in the same directory as the executable, it will
automatically load it.

