# JavaSE (Shaded) Usage

SquirrelJME's Shaded JavaSE JAR requires at least a Java SE 7 virtual
machine. For most systems, it may be downloaded from the following locations:

 * <https://adoptopenjdk.net/>
 * <http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html>
 * In Debian/Ubuntu, OpenJDK is available in the repository.

Generally SquirrelJME will work best with at least a Java 8 virtual machine.

The JAR file `squirreljme-javase.jar` may be run by running the following:

 * `java -jar squirreljme-javase.jar`

When run, it should start the launcher and provide a list of available
programs.

The following keys are used:

 * _F1_ - _F12_: Command actions, these are placed at the bottom of the screen.
 * _Arrow Keys_: Directional actions.
 * _Spacebar_  : _Fire_ action.
 * _ABCD_      : _A_, _B_, _C_, and _D_ game actions.

## Third-party Libraries and Applications

Third-party libraries and applications may be used, however currently these
may or may not be supported fully. The JARs must be valid J2ME or Java ME
libraries or applications (generally CLDC, MIDP, or MEEP). Additionally if
an application requires the use of libraries then all dependencies which are
not optional must be included.

SquirrelJME will try to look in the following locations:

 * A directory called `lib` at the same path in the JAR file.
 * A directory called `lib` in the current working directory.

## Advanced Configuration

If desired, the virtual machine can be configured via system properties:

 * `cc.squirreljme.vm.shadeactiveclass`
   * The class to load resources from when accessing resources, this is for
     virtual machines (such as Java ME) or certain `ClassLoader` setups can
     only perform `Class.resourceAsStream()` within the same JAR.
 * `cc.squirreljme.vm.shadeprefix`
   * The prefix to append to all access of resources when looking for classes
     and JAR resources.
 * `cc.squirreljme.vm.shadeclasspath`
   * The initialize class path to use for the initial boot program.
 * `cc.squirreljme.vm.shademain`
   * The main class of the starting program.
 * `cc.squirreljme.vm.shadebootid`
   * The main class or index of the MIDlet to enter.
 * `cc.squirreljme.vm.name`
   * The virtual machine to select, may be `springcoat` or `summercoat`.
