# 2020/07/26

## 15:04

Okay so I definitely forgot that MIDP 3 has a bunch of different layout policies
which do not match how J2ME did things in the past. So going to have to have
that in UIForms in order for it to be handled properly.

## 15:11

So I really do not want to add `16 * 4 = 64` entries for special items and such
because that would just be way more complicated than I want. So I think for
those special item commands and such, I am just going to have a special kind
of item for the most part. Maybe like a button array? I do have to do menus
so I need to add this in as well though. So maybe this would be best handled by
a special type of item? It would basically be an array of buttons for the
most part. But that in itself would be messy as the items would have lots of
functionality specific for that item and I just want simple items. So how I best
go about these items? I should think on it more.

## 20:05

I do have work in the morning and was not really sure what to do today, so I
cleaned, watched a movie with my wife, and relaxed mostly. I think for now it
would be best to just implement all of LCDUI in the tests and such just to
see how it would go. Of course for tests I would need a way to inject events
accordingly just to ensure that things work properly.

## 20:25

Okay so for injecting, I am just going to have it where I can get the
callback interface since it would all be in the same format. This would
make implementation easier and I can always do `MLECallError` if not
supported.