# 2015/01/06

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 04:05

I should make the PackageManager synchronized using special lists and such.

## 04:46

Using JsonValue would be a bit cumbersome, most string values are all strings
anyway for the most part. In the future numbers can be handled by just
converting them when needed.

## 18:45

I will need to handle existing but uninstalled JAR files in the binary area,
so I would have to assume do something such as renaming to determine if it is
installed or not. Perhaps "jar" for installed and "not" for not installed
since that way binary packages can be toggled rather than redownloaded from
some place. And on another point, I can move onto the building of packages if
they are not installed and dynamically load new JARs at run-time. The kernel
will build and install the k8-dynarec package so it may be used. Perhaps a
better name would be "ja_" for uninstalled packages.

## 20:23

A Result class would be better package find results rather than returning the
map that is directly used, then at least more information can be stored.

## 23:26

Although possibly handy, having multiple package lists and binaries able to be
specified complicates things. Sources are fine however. Although having
multiple of binaries and sources would allow for read-only change ups the
package list could be modified in a way and changed globally so it uses
another list instead which is on a writeable medium. There are already user
packages which may be installed, and the user storage would most likely be on
an area that can be written to. So if a user desires a specific piece of
software they can just do it that way.

