# 2015/01/08

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:46

I know something strange I can do, remove the Map from the PackageManager and
make it set. Then have PackageInfo extend PackagePair and implement a map for
property values. Then the packages could be maintained in a bit different way.
However the Set does not have a get based on the key value. I could always
just make a map that contains the value as the same key.

## 01:58

My quite ugly CallCheckedCollections now looks much better in Java 8,
especially with lambdas and functions now.

## 02:13

Also means less magic as the CallCheckedCollections can handle all of the
needed checking with just a lambda.

## 02:21

Changing the maps and such to that has made the code much cleaner and nicer,
also reduced a bunch of code too.

## 04:19

Instead of a dependency list in the PackageManager, it would best be in the
PackageInfo since it only refers to them by name and such.

## 06:09

I should use a DiagnosticListener for package manager stuff especially when it
is to be built.

## 06:42

Actually what I was going for is bad, instead I know a better way. The manager
will not have building just installing and PackageInfo will not have it
either. There will be a separate builder class which handles everything that
way the information and the manager are kept cleaner.

