# 2015/01/16

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 08:24

I can use lambdas to write the constant pool writing code.

## 16:33

Hairball needs a package runner so I can build and run arbitrary packages for
testing, that is calling main of sorts on the build system.

## 17:02

And that class is forming now, so I can easily test any package on the host
system. In fact, this system could end up being called by the test framework.

## 17:22

The JARs being built, require main methods though and such. So that explictely
stating the main class is not required.

## 18:00

I was going to write something but I forgot. On another note, when I look at
my HTML blog posts I can preview what they say when I look at them in the user
interface which is quite neat. Moving to single HTML pages was also a good
idea for my blog, although I need to fixup some lists I generated since they
are broken and still in LaTeX.

## 18:30

Using an array in ConstantPool and making Entry be non-static can work out
well for simplifying things. In the past I would have to be painful casts, but
here I can just have the entry stuff return what I expect and it can do all of
the checking. This should reduce the mess and simplify the loading code a bit.

