# 2015/01/17

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 07:40

I should have a binary name type for JavaType since that could be handy for
things.

## 08:35

Having that and an identifier type simplifies checking of things and makes
things a bit more powerful.

## 13:28

After writing a class loader so much, it only gets better everytime I rewrite
it. Though fields and methods are mostly the same, I wonder how I should
handle them. Perhaps have a base member read then have a lambda for each which
was read that does further processing as needed.

## 14:15

When I write a web browser, supporting images will be easy as I can just write
image reader classes and use those directly.

## 17:14

Hopefully I got these cardinal offsets correct.

## 18:22

Added scrolling with the arrow keys but my grid does not draw correctly when I
project onto higher view offsets.

## 19:00

For some reason the maps are ending up very small in size.

## 19:21

Drawing calculate errors is the cause, need to figure out what is wrong with
my megatile choice code for drawing.

## 20:19

I just do not understand why this is not working, this shouldnot be taking
hours to solve. Most likely it is something very dumb.

## 20:24

Brute forcing the entire map works.

## 20:40

Was dumb, when getting the map pixels of the top left and bottom right
corners, instead of projecting (0, 0) and (w, h), I was projecting the view
offset.

## 21:18

Now to do a massive database bringin as I parse these tables from an online
site. The joys of clean room design, with an ancient game everyone else has
already picked apart the logic and such. The long part will be naming
everything.

