# 2015/01/18

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 09:00

A new day dawns, now to strip lots of HTML.

## 12:34

And now I have completely turned the HTML data tables into annotation based
enumerations. Now for the massive import.

## 13:20

Actually I still have to do the weapons data.

## 14:07

Now to make all the constant tables compile.

## 15:00

If making all those tables with automatic tools took 5 hours, I wonder how
long it would take if I copied them from scratch. The joys of scripts.

## 19:14

Having a class called Map is rather conflicting.

## 19:42

Having createUnit have a location is a bad idea since some units could be
created and be deployed, or remain hidden for a bit, depends.

## 20:52

I have a cache class there, but it is really ugly so there must be a nicer way
to setup a good cache. Perhaps when a UnitType is requested it can just use a
straight map where values are translated as required into lists and such.
Since going into the data tables will be a bit convoluted and such. However,
the enumerations could in fact reference themselves and it may be possible to
have a single class act as the static cache. That would require messing with
interfaces however. However interfaces still lack fields, but to reference
static globals without exposing them another class could be used for storage.
Then the default methods could use those instead. Another thing with the
defaults is that they could have all the getSize() and such needed for types
of things.

## 23:57

Having two megenta-ish colors does not seem it will end up nice at all.

