# 2015/01/22

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 10:31

In regards to networking this spinner likes to change its value back and
forth, so I need a new way to specify the seed. So I will use a textfield
instead.

## 11:37

A bit of a hack for seed, but it works.

## 11:56

Going to use primitive varargs for impulses, assuming it is valid. Also, using
raw integers for the source is a bad idea because it is too prone to errors,
so I am using an interface instead for that.

## 12:47

Going to need actual physics to play this and such. So next comes the
collision detection stuff. But I also need tiles for the terrain also so that
I may work on collision detection while that is going on also. I have a choice
for tiles though, I can remove cliffs and just have it as merges where the
cliffs just exist. The ground would appear very flat though and may lack
perspective.

## 13:16

But that would not look good at all.

## 13:41

Although more feature reduction at the cost of simplification, going to make
clients only able to control single players at a time rather than multiple
ones.

## 13:47

Well, not too sure of that. Perhaps if a local player controls multiple
players it will just result in a splitscreen where they can move the mouse
around any of those windows. That itself would simplify testing two players at
the same time, although it would not really be intended for splitscreen play
at all.

## 14:32

So with this you can have 15 players on a single window, which makes the game
windows quite small in size.

## 15:21

Attempting to figure out how I can get keybindings to switch to specific
JPanels, perhaps I can just create a hack of sorts on the parent frame and
propogate downwards based on the focused item. But setFocusable to permit and
deny the focus based on the mouse works.

## 18:51

Having the panels for drawing and event handling complicates things so I am
going to split up the SwingDrawer even more.

## 19:40

Despite being incomplete this code moving around looks very nice.

## 19:53

I do wonder if I can use SoftReference in a way for units so that when it is
no longer used it gets placed in a re-use cache of sorts.

