# 2015/01/31

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 02:16

The current annotation stuff I have is not going to work since the value of an
annotation can be quite complex.

## 03:05

New annotation code is nice, however now I need to name annotations that get
added to actual classes and members via the FormAnnotated interface. Perhaps
FormAnnotations which is a list of FormAnnotation. However some annotations
are visible, others are invisible, and then there are annotations on type
parameters and all that. I would much rather have a single class that contains
all of that such information so code is not duplicated across all of those
classes. However, the type based annotations are extended off of normal
annotations, so I will be unable to keep FormAnnotation not abstract. Or I can
just include the target information which would be optional anyway. But that
would be messy.

## 05:54

If English had another plural form. Naming classes is always the hard part of
things. Said class will only contain the visible and invisible annotations.
Since the type annotations are now an extension of regular annotations it
simplifies things greatly when it comes to classes and such. This also means
that the FormCodeBank stuff I had a base for is also annotated. Maybe just
group will work.

## 17:34

Going to need beefier type annotation stuff as the target type has more
representations based on the thing that is being targetted.

