# 2016/08/01

## 07:25

A new month.

## 10:07

Ok, so I made 785 commits. I mostly just did JIT work last month. I wrote a
JIT then got rid of it and rewrote it number of times. Currently the JIT how
it is now is how I would like to continue with it. The same goes for the
emulation system that I have planned. I just need to finish the refactoring of
the dynamic byte buffer (by using partitions) and potentially speed up the
sliding byte window class and support bulk read operations (since calling
`read` over and over is slow). I added mirrors to other sites (using Git). I
wrote ZIP reading and writing stream code. I will have to refactor the block
based reader because the current one is quite bad and is pretty slow. I did
a refactor of the test system since it was untouched for a few months. The
current test system is quite nice and works out quite well. I also switched to
the GPLv3 from the AGPLv3, this is more permissive as the AGPLv3 would
complicate things when it comes to client browsers. I implemented the CRC32
algorithm so ZIP entries can be checked and such. I added the base for the
current JIT. Removed a bunch of old code. I also converted the mascot to SVG.
So pretty much the main work that was done was in the JIT area.

## 10:11

So my current goal is to finish the refactor of the supporting classes then
move back to the JIT and generate Linux MIPS binaries instead. Going straight
for a real target will allow me to test the MIPS execution system and the
base emulation. So in reality I am dropping the interpreter. Going the
interpreter route as I planned before would just be more difficult since the
target system does not exist, I will need to invent an ABI for it.

