# 2016/08/12

## 07:55

Strings do not have to be written together, they can be written as soon as
possible (say when there is no current output). The only issue would be that
strings could not be sorted for binary lookup. However in general strings are
going to need to be imported so that constants are equal with extra classes
in consideration.

## 12:59

Well, `Writer.lock` is not `final`, that seems like a mistake. Also the CLDC
one is not `Flushable` although it has a `flush` method.

## 14:16

Actually, the imports for certain things can be flagged for simplicity. For
example if I write to a field I can mark it as read. However, if the field
ends up really being `final` (meaning the class changed) then it can fail at
import resolution time.

## 14:21

The same can be done for super and interfaces.

## 17:42

The namespace writer is getting rather ugly again however.

## 17:17

I am thinking far too much into it. One thing that _every_ class has is the
constant pool. The constant pool **is the import table**. Anything the class
uses refers to the constant pool. It might also be best to have fragmentable
classes. For example instead of merging all classes into a single namespace,
they can be individually referenced. They would still be executable in memory.
So essentially the namespace format would be like a ZIP file so to speak. The
class processor for the most part can just define a constant pool and pass it
to the writer, which then handles references to the entries in it as such. Then
for each method in a class, they refer to a constant pool so to speak. The
pool would be a bit smarter having the previously thought about extends and
implements flags. Before I just ignored the constant pool, but the information
is all there. Also, if I ignore a global string table, although it would cost
some more bytes it would in effect make it so classes are stand alone and
processed on their own. I would not need to keep a record of strings.

