# 2016/08/18

## 16:33

Ok so my squashed down data is done, I just need to start implementing the
code generator.

## 16:38

Currently 20KiB, not writing the end of class magic number gives me 19KiB. This
is likely the lowest I can go without compressing resources. One thing I can do
to reduce the size (an average of 2 bytes per class) would be to make the
super class implicit and instead sort the class entries by super class, but
that would be rather complex to do.

## 16:42

Since I would like to keep the binaries below 65KiB, this give me either 13KiB
or 45KiB for native code to be generated. Now if the entire set of stuff
including the UI elements can fit within 65KiB, that would be quite awesome.
As I develop the code more, I can likely make up for some code size savings.
One thing I can have however is a global generated code storage. For every
method where the machine code is exactly the same, use the same code. This
would work initially where everything is a TODO but it would be less effective
as time moves on and more of the library is implemented. So this would not
really be practical in the long run.

## 18:56

I can definitely feel being close to a workable demo soon. I can feel the
chills of concentration.

## 18:59

It feels like I am almost at the top of the first hill with the mountain
faded in the distance.

## 19:52

I can store the constant values of fields in the constant pool so that
constants are shared across differing classes in an namespace (such an event
may occur, especially for popular numbers).

## 20:10

So the question is, do I make identifiers and types their own entries?
Identifiers would be a bit pointless but I can see it for types. Perhaps just
for methods. If it is in the constant pool it can be determined the arguments
to something. However there is no reflection so this information is generally
pointless. The only thing it would really be good for would be debugging, but
that is very minimal. For linking, since everything is already verified, only
the names are needed. So for simplicity it will just be a name for the most
part.

## 20:16

It is very neat and interesting how everything turns orange as the suns set,
you can definitely notice it with the windows open. Another day gone past ready
for the nearly full moon to shine.

