# 2014/09/01

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 08:31

A new month. According to statdiff, I made 4024 subtractions and 19,195
additions.

## 09:28

Shunning the class lists of which are in XZ+ASCII85 format saved me some
space, about 55KB. Although the lists could be useful, they are not needed at
this current time so I backed thme up for future usage. They also do not
really belong in the repository, as it would just bloat it.

## 10:22

Forgot about mark() and reset() in LineColumnReader, and since that is
ultimately a BufferedReader I do not have to worry about wrapping it in
another one to get mark() and reset() support. So that class is highly
reliable as long as reset() can handle end of file.

## 14:02

Hopefully this month, I will have a complete compiler which can handle Java
source code.

## 17:20

I disabled warnings on the package build, but it appears gcj-wrapper ignores
the -nowarn option so warnings are emitted anyway.

## 22:09

Some happiness is in order, learned how to sort of play the Bunnie song from
Zelda. After attempting two handed play (never did before), I feel as if my
typing on the keyboard has changed and I need to sort of relearn or at least
adapt.

## 22:18

A large spider jumped on my laptop screen, I murdered it.

