# 2015/02/23

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 12:47

Aha! My trouble code with the jumps and such may be due to append frame being
incorrect. Append frame empties the stack whereas in my code I did not empty
it. Such a thing was not truly detectable before however due to the complex
SMT table of some earlier methods, however this one is quite simple.

## 13:05

UNDEFINED_REFERENCE will have to compact into REFERENCE since I get stuck on
that happening, I already have it the other way around however.

## 13:07

And that fixes some things, so now I am at IF_ACMPNE.

## 13:10

46 operands remain.

## 15:30

BIPUSH and SIPUSH are constants, not from the stack. So math is not needed at
all as the values are aleady sign extended when I read them into the argument
list so all I need is to push a constant value.

## 19:06

With a SMT form of SFS1ASS1SS1SSSSSSSSSSASCASCSSCC and LONG LONG LONG with
missing tops, it may be that parts of the SMT have IMPLICIT top declarations.

## 19:35

Appears chopframe also does it.

## 20:58

It would seem that ALL of the SMT values do it, so then what is the purpose of
the top verification type? Perhaps just to fool values???

## 21:10

Will need to note to read 4.10.2.3 for handling of long and double along with
rewriting the bulk SMT stuff to be better written.

## 23:23

Cannot figure this out.

## 23:37

Stack issues where due to getting next of the type, but solved that with a max
value set.

