# 2016/01/04

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 00:09

Now everything is split. Now I must determine if everything compiles OK.

## 00:38

So far the split code is going well after a few compact3 fixes. Surprisingly
most of the Java library is not really dependent on other parts of it. And now
everything is completely built. So far all the **TODO** throwing totals 3.6MiB
which means it would take up about half the space on a 512Mb Nintendo 64
cartridge. This is with compression and such.

## 01:13

Calculated that value wrong, there would be about 58MiB of spare space.

## 06:17

I actually do not need to share a single lock but can have many in the patch
code. This would be faster and would allow more threads to work with singular
sets of codes without fighting a single primary lock.

## 06:40

I already do this however.

## 07:11

The sun is appearing, and it is very cold.

## 12:44

So what I need to do is have a way to create new elements at earlier locations.

## 13:03

This is where lambdas and default methods will be useful. Say I want to create
a new entry in a primary and want to replace a specific class at a location, I
can then have a custom placer used for that. So this way I can just have a
single method used to create things and multiple placement possibilities.

