# 2016/01/22

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 14:45

Lots of snow outside.

## 16:06

Looks like I will need to handle `list` in `JavaFileManager` so it can find
`java.lang` and such.

## 16:09

I will also need to fallback on the potentially system provided packages or
just use my own.

## 16:52

The snow depth outside is six inches for the most part and there will be much
much more because the radar show a dark cyan over the entire state for the most
part.

## 21:27

The snow depth is about 1 foot and 2 to 3 inches. Tomorrow I shall go sledding
since I have not done such things for about a decade. The amount of snow that
there is, is immense.

## 21:39

I do wonder if I should handle cases where Squirrnix can be built on systems
which are not capable of preserving case for example.

## 21:48

I get a `ClassNotFoundException` for the delete comparator. I do wonder though
if my `ClassLoader` has to call the parent if it cannot find any class.

## 21:50

Actually looks like the methods I have overidden, at least in their
documentation, state that the parent is to be searched first then the child.
This makes sense because say if the parent lacks a compiler, the classes can
exist and be implemented by my own package code.

## 22:26

Not sure what causes this, it just cannot find the DeletePathComparator class.

