# 2019/10/06

## 09:07

Definitely want to get tasks running and such today, since that would be cool
to have!

## 10:20

Think I want to actually have some system call work done, move things over so
that when RatufaCoat gets closer something actually could potentially run.

## 10:21

I also want to cleanup the C code and have a constants of sorts, because there
are a ton!

## 17:45

I want to get rid of the aliasing between pointer and object for any code that
is for SpringCoat and Java SE since it is pretty nasty to have!

## 18:08

Okay, I do want to just re-organize my projects and such. I think the class
file stuff could go elsewhere as part of a SquirrelJME support library, that
the compiler stuff be part of the build system. I mean it would be nice to
have a self hosting SquirrelJME that runs on SquirrelJME but is that really
realistic? Probably not. And maybe SpringCoat/SummerCoat better belong as part
of the build system libraries? I mean they are not needed at run-time for
most users. So I think having them live there would be best. That way the core
SquirrelJME is much leaner and such.

## 18:13

I do have an idea for SpringCoat's pointer to object and the reverse, just
kind of having a chain of objects or something? Although that is a bit
complicated. Also thinking again to get rid of SpringCoat as well. I mean
it is my one working implementation, I think it would be best if it and the
other VM lived in the build system the more that I think of it really.

## 18:15

I do have two months left though and I really cannot spend the limited time I
have doing a major refactor since I would probably miss my release goal. So
I think this would be best done after 0.4.0 is released.
