# 2015/10/14

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 02:19

Found this nice animation, looks like a moving staircase. I have different
animations to choose a color depending on the block type and I stumbled upon
this one, so I will need to figure out what something to give to it.

## 12:00

I can calculate the face offset coordinates using the face direction code I
have written.

## 12:11

Or I can just use precalculated coordinates. I have a tissue box next to me so
I can quickly determine the values visually rather than mathematically. I
suppose this is cheating however.

## 12:27

It is possible to simulate a Z buffer sort of using the framebuffer graphics.
I just have to use a byte based mode say grayscale.

## 13:20

However Z buffers could potentially be slow because of the per pixel stuff
going on. That is also a ton of array bound checks.

## 13:29

I can determine which areas of a chunk are visible by using the mapping stuff
and a simple set of flags for each block in a chunk which indicate the faces
which are visible from that block. The flood fill algorithm can calculate that
information as needed. This requires recalculation whenever a block is changed
however, but for chunks which are static (such as those consisting entirely of
air or terrain the player walks over to ignore) then it only has to be
calculated once.

## 14:45

Believe I need to change the way the loop is called, because with the locking
and such, the game becomes very sluggish. I could most likely split the
framebuffer and a few other things out so that they are controlled by the main
loop rather than having the code rely on Swing doing things. Then this way it
will hopefully be a smooth experience rather than missing locks and such. If I
remove all of the locks I will have the game run only in a single thread with
swing stuff in other threads.

## 19:39

After changing the render stuff but before removing the synchronization stuff,
the frame time is rather horrible.

