# 2015/10/31

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 14:12

Documenting my KBF file format, markdown is pretty nice. I have tended to
avoid it because older versions of fossils which I have used do not support
it. However, I suppose k8 will have to support displaying it and such. Perhaps
when a web browser comes via the Swing HTML widget or JavaFX HTML widget if it
determines that the file being displayed is markdown it can just display it
rather than attempting to download it (unless octet-stream is specified).

## 14:56

I have that feeling where I want to switch my entire set of blogs to markdown
so that they are a bit easier reading so to speak. It should be rather
straight forward for the most part. Also I should probably document the class
file format just so it is in the repository.

## 16:46

I have translated all of my blog entries into Markdown, so the file size is a
bit smaller and my blog entries are a bit easier to read. There is however
some lack of syntax highlighting though.

## 17:30

I wonder if ~~striking out~~ is supported. Appears it is not supported in
fossil, but that does not matter much at all.

## 21:42

No candy at all this holiday. One thing I only which is major is that the
markdown files are much lighter compared to HTML.

## 22:09

A little bit more than 400 commits this month, so I suppose not that bad.

## 23:15

The DynaRecConfig could use CPU features and bugs. The question is though, do
I call it CPUFeatureBug or CPUBugFeature?

