# 2014/08/15

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 02:52

Appears my annotation group stuff works, I have not exactly been able to test
it until now.

## 03:43

Before I forget in the future, I should also have the annotations that are
associated with the enumeration value also attached because they could be used
in the future.

## 04:48

Just realized that most of the stuff that I use such as Arrays, has been added
in 1.6 which is not available in 1.5 at all. I could always increase the
requirement to 1.6 however.

## 05:14

Need a script to use for debugging GIJ/GCJ.

## 05:24

Of which does not work when remote attaching at all.

## 08:26

Now I am back at the point I was before, a Json enum handling thing similar to
ArgumentParsing. Of which is called JsonHandler.

## 09:09

No more changes to ArgumentParsing are to be required, so I shaved off about
300 lines of code during this refactoring. It also easier to use and much less
buggy so in the end it worked out quite well.

## 12:23

Need to flatten my other laptop's keyboard because it keeps popping out, so I
have switched to my recently fixed PowerPC laptop, although it is a bit
sluggish compared to the other laptop.

## 23:19

Going to change the project.json tags a bit that way it is easier to parse and
to make it more dense. Going to turn the massive depends, suggests, etc.
arrays into a singlular "interfaces" where that is an array with that stuff in
it. Then I am going to "x-" prefix the unimportant stuff that is not critical
to the core operation. That way, the JSON files are a bit cleaner than being
messy, I will have to modify the parsing scripts though but it should be much
easier then.

