# 2017/11/30

## 13:18

Okay so `APIStandard` is not correct because standards have name, vendor, and
version information. I just have name and version. Also the API base only does
dashes.

## 13:20

Also using `DependencySet` for provided dependencies and dependencies
themselves is a bit ugly. So definitely I am going to refactor how
dependencies and provided ones are represented. Because right now having just
that one class is ratehr ugly. So a re-thinking will definitely be much better
and would allow less error prone usage.

## 13:24

Also going to remove `MidletSuiteIDFormat` and have separate classes for that,
for simplicity purposes.

## 13:25

Also `DependencySet` will change. Instead of having a list of
`ManifestedDependency` there will just be configurations, profiles, and then
the standard dependency lines. This will be more better represented in the
manifests. So then `DependencySet` can then have a conjunction with
`ProvidedSet`. But instead of _Set_ I will have it as _Info_. That way it is
not seen by name to be like a set, when it should not be. Then the conjunction
and such will be much simpler and faster for the most part. So I would say
that new dependency code should be in its own subpackage.

## 17:30

Okay, so the building and compiling part of `BinaryManager` can definitely be
done much better and in its own class as to not clutter the class up with
all the building logic. That would be a great thing.

## 20:58

Neat to `String.compareToIgnoreCase()` is locale independent, which is nice.

## 22:01

Let me see, if a string is as follows: "aaa;bbb;ccc" then there are two
delimeters. So that means that.
