# 2014/09/03

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 08:10

Numbers are the most complex to decode.

## 09:40

Hopefully errors will be easier to locate now that file, line, and column
information is dumped in generated messages.

## 09:47

I just need to tokenize floating point literals then all types of tokens would
be tokenized.

## 12:55

I need to perform a two pass operation, first I need to obtain the structure
of any classes declared in the source code, then after that I can compile any
fields and method operations.

## 19:25

I believe I am going to move all the packages into a single directory because
all of these directories elsewhere makes it rather confusing to find all of
the stuff. The organization is nice but it complicates things.

## 20:33

Messed up the repository, spent an hour trying to delete the revision by
manually messing with the SQL database. However, I can just shun the SHA-1 sum
of the revision, so that simplifies things.

## 21:27

Luckily for me, no changes were required for my build system to continue
operating, however I did modify it since I no longer needed to specify the
root of the project directory. Using the sub directory for packages should
speed things up by a tiny fraction of an amount.

## 21:49

The packages reorganized looks quite nice and simplifies locating everything,
it might look "bad" at the end but it over complicates things.

