# 2015/07/05

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 09:56

I will need to split the binary type stuff off so SSAProgram can use them
without requiring a massive rebuild of everything changing the SSA code. This
also means that SSAType will no longer be required. Actually it would still be
required because the Java types cannot understand stuff such as unsigned
values outside of char. However, signed types could still be treated as
unsigned due to two's complement. So it could be removed.

## 10:12

The operations for SSA should be normal classes rather than enumerations. This
would be similar to NARF. Right now there is a semi-mixed state of it. The SSA
stuff should be cleaned up before it gets too messy. There will also need to
be links and such which are references to stuff in Java that the code uses.

## 12:29

Adding an Apache ant script although it is not going to do much except build
the launcher and then build the kernel. Although there are some issues that I
have missed with my launcher script which work when ran from the shell
scripts.

## 13:29

Appears that ant uses ECJ, which appears to be a bit slower than the compiler
Sun and now Oracle provides. It however is a JavaCompiler which is provided by
the runtime to dynamically compile things.

## 18:58

Feels like I am going insane, like my mind is working differently.

## 20:24

Tomorrow however is my birthday. I will be 26. I know not the exact second but
it is close enough.

## 22:11

Definitely I am going insane.

