# 2015/07/10

***DISCLAIMER***: _These notes are from the defunct k8 project which_
_precedes SquirrelJME. The notes for SquirrelJME start on 2016/02/26!_
_The k8 project was effectively a Java SE 8 operating system and as such_
_all of the notes are in the context of that scope. That project is no_
_longer my goal as SquirrelJME is the spiritual successor to it._

## 16:24

Was a busy real life day earlier.

## 18:31

My glasses snapped in half earlier today also, which was not really a good
thing. However I repaired them myself after two attempts of which the second
succeeding. The center bridge between the lens was split in the middle, so my
successful attempt was taking copy wire and wrapping it around the hooks that
make part of the nose rest and then looping it around the branch. I did that
once and then placed a cut piece of paper clip and wrapped the copper wire
around that. I repeated until the center then brought in the other side (with
some help as the other held both sides of the glasses). Once I wrapped around
the bar on the right side too I then finished it with a loop around the nose
rest thing. Continued with a small loop back and then cut the wire. I then
soldered a whole bunch around it until it was soldered and one solid piece. My
first try soldering it ended up in the lens being shifted so a bit wrong. So
luckily once the solder melted again I could adjust the bits as needed. Once I
got it good enough I let it solidify. Luckily for me it felt as if the glasses
are a single piece. I suppose the solder bound between the copper, the
paperclip, and the frame of the glasses to take up a good solid shape. After
that ordeal, I wrapped some electrical tape around the solder job so solder
and copper bits do not contact my skin. So a good thing is that I always go
for metal glasses. And after this, the glasses do not fall off my head as they
did before.

